the day of which we do not speak is over    My age is higher, but I'm really not older I guess 'cause you can't age a whole year in just one day.   Well I guess if you like got hit by a train it might make you feel really bad and old........what?   Let's see, it didn't really suck too bad at all.   The boy and my love and I went to the State Fair.  It was pretty cool.  I took a lot of pictures, some of them not so cool, some of them pretty ok.  I am TIRED from it, from the walking.  When I laid down in bed it felt so good.  It was a tired I had earned instead of tired simply from sitting around and doing nothing.    Well hey wow look it's time for me to get ready for work.  Yippie working the weekend is just so so so dandy fun.    
       to be happy on a consistant basis?  what joy must live in not being grouchy or hopeless every darn day of your life.  who knows?  I sure don't know.      
       I sit here with my nails painted...'wet paint' the sign would say if they had a sign on them.   I did the little girl thing and painted every other one green and every other one pink.    I have accepted the inevitble birthday that approaches.   I decided trying to avoid it was useless and vain.  What's the big deal anyway?  I hve everything to live for and I'm still alot younger than some people.   I am completely uninspired.    
       I've got this really bad pain in my back like right in the middle like someone stuck a knife right there.  Yet my love wonders why I have trust issues!  How the heck can I learn to trust anyone if the people I thought I could trust go around stabbing me full-on in the back.  I guess my life is just one bad choice after another.        I feel like going shopping.  But today I have my physical for my new job at 3.  Maybe after that I'll go.  The boy and I went for a picture-taking ride this morning before lunch.  I had a few moments of aggravation when this ugly white Ford Ranger with red decals on the side decided to ride my bumper and try to exert peer pressure on me to go faster.  I get really irritated at people that follow too closely, you know who you are.        
       why must antibitoics cause yeast infections? what the heck is the point.  They need to just come in, do their job and leave without causing all the problems that result when the flora of your body is killed off.  I guess it's one of those times when truly you can't have it all.  Yes, my dear this Keflex will help your leg heal from cellulitis so it doesn't have to be amputated but as if it isn't enough to have cellulitis now you will be throwing up, with diarrhea and a yeast infection.  I GIVE UP.  Maybe I should have let the cellulitis go and then I never would have had to deal with this.  By the way I have a nearly full bottle of 500mg Keflex if anyone wants it.  Yeah I know they tell you to take all of it even if you feel better.....(I didn't go to nursing school for nothing) but I ain't gonna do it.  My leg is fine.  Some things maybe should just be left alone.      I start my new job soon.  I don't know exactly when but I have quit the nursing home yippiiieeeeee.  I am so sick of the management wishing to line their own pockets instead of take care their employees so we can take care of the residents which in turn would line their pockets but when you're a selfish rich person you don't always see that right away until someone sues you and then you are forced to.        my virus scan has detected a virus how dare someone infect me!    
       watch Backdraft, or recall it.  No, no the sex scene on the firetruck, but when they'd open a door and that ball would burst through.   Yah that deadly and beautiful ball of fire.  Think about anything you've seen where an airplane door or window goes out way up in the air.  (think: Fight Club, U.S Marshals)   Think about it for a minute.  Think about the sound it makes.  The rush, the roar, the pulling you may feel.   Think about it.   Think about opening a heavy door against the wind.   I did something last night that I regret.  I had a curiosity that I did not want to ignore.  Not all curious urges need be acted on.  My life is an ongoing example of that fact.    I will not give details much.  That is not what maters.  Once again she is greiving for me, this grand firend of mine known fondly as "Spirit Chick" (which reminds me she needs a new name as that one was given nearly 10 years ago when it was cool to be called a chick).  I wrote the account down in my journal, half asleep so I recalled not what I wrote until this morning when I read it.  I'm glad I did that, wrote in my sleep.  I was honest then, honest with myself.   In the Lion King, Mufasa appears in the clouds and tells Simba "remember who you are."  I have a hard time remembering how important it is that I remmber who I am and who I belong to.        To put things simply, I went on a "ghost hunt" with some friends and with my love.   The place we went is well known in this area and beyond to those who belive in the spiritual things.  Troy Taylor thinks  it is a portal.   Who is Troy Taylor?  He writes books.  He has exspenive equipment.    urlLink http://www.prairieghosts.com   if you want to know.   My issue is not really as much what happened, but that it actually happened.    My spirit feels....raw.  Like it's been raped, or road rash or sunburn or all of the above.  Rape is more accurate.  I think that we experienced something last night that very few people ever have.   I can honestly say I have never been so terrified in my life.  Yes I've been scared.  Like the night I walked through the streets of Cuenca alone.  Or the time I had that spider on me, sticking it's web to my skin.   God doesn't leave me....I just get away.  Think of it like a little kid.......a little kid with its mama at the mall.  Mama doesn't leave the kid, kid wanders off.  It's happened to you...I know it has...you get surrounded by strangers, can't see mama.  You know how that feels, to look up and she's gone.           OK take all the sensory images I have given you....hold them in.   Don't call me crazy...believe this or don't.  But don't call me crazy if you don't believe.  Parallel to our puny pathtic vapor of a life on earth is the "spirit world."  I cannot speak for my 2 friends or my love when I say this.....you'll have to ask them.   But I really really really feel that last night, sitting in the back of my friend's Stang....that the door to their world flew open and they swarmed us like a swarm of bees.  I felt them all over me, pawing me in my very soul.  Like a little kid whose mama isn't left, just on the other side of these strangers.  The noise?  Like wind, laughing, screaming, grumbling, terror.  So, no more ghost hunts for me.  My mind is left with questions.......this is not the first time He's made me privy to that world.  Not the last.        at least I know Uncle George is NOT there.....    
        I noticed today, while out driving, that the trees and other various green plants are beginning to lose their summer luster.  Not really changing colors yet but not the deep luscious green of May/June/July.  It makes me sad.  But fall is nice, for different reasons.  It brings the snow of course eventually so that is good.   I will never forget when I went to Ecuador for 2 weeks in August of 1998.  When I left at the beginning of the month,  all was right with the world, the corn was thick and green and smelled so grand and the trees were bright and heavy with their green leaves.  When I returned 15 days later, the corn was yellowed and whispy, and the trees were painting themselves any color but green.   Now that I am not in school any more, fall holds no terror for me.   When I was little, my heart would sink with despair when WalMart would put out the back-to-school stuff.    Now it brings to my mind day trips to look at trees, cool nights for hot chocolate, wiener roasts and bonfires.   But as we've found true, the weather will be cool, but the the first week of school it will become hot again.    Never fails.     ["You have been more faithful than the morning sun, You have been more faithful than knowing night will come, You have been more faithful than the changing of seasons."]  
       my arm is sore today.  I know that may not matter to anyone, it barely matters to me.  It is a minor annoyance that is easy to deal with.  While I'm complaining, I may as well tell anyone that is reading about how my stomach feels like a can of worms on crack that are about to devour each other in a wave of insane rage.  What a lovely way to describe nausea, my dear.  At this current moment, the boy is in his playpen screaming.  Just his normal occasional screams.  He was in here with me, standing in his crib but he began screaming in my ear and I thought he could take his nap in his box.  He is not napping.  I have put this stuff in my hair, this cholesterol stuff that feels like death and holds my hair like glue.  It's purpose is to soften and strengthen my hair...we'll see.  Soon I will take a shower and the boy and I will get in Sangria and go for a drive.  We will sing.  Probably today will be lots of "did you ever see the faces of the children they get so excited" over and over because I love to sing that.        Today is Tuesday, and I am off today.  I am off on Friday yippie and will more than likely do nothing then as well.        The boy is not napping.  I am assuming he would prefer to nap in the car while I sing like Ann-Margaret.   
       Don't hate me because I'm beautiful, hate me because you want to.  
        5. Hit Stick -  Madden 2005   4. Playmaker Control -  Madden 2004  3. Hot Routes -  NCAA 2004  2. Home Field Advantage -  NCAA 2005  1.  The High Five -  Tecmo Bowl    I haven't actually played  Madden 2005  yet (soon...very soon), but from what I read the Hit Stick will be incredible. Playmaker Control is great for changing the direction of running plays and making receivers come back to the ball. Hot Routes were revolutionary. Home Field Advantage balanced out their power. But watching Willie Gault and Walter Payton slap hands made Tecmo Bowl the most fun game ever. Rock on  urlLink Tecmo .    
        5. Jay Schroeder 4. Rob Johnson 3. Tony Banks 2. Danny Wuerffel  1. Heath Shuler    First of all, let me say that I was at the game where Lawrence Taylor forcibly passed the torch from Joe Theisman to Jay Schroeder. I'm actually glad I was there and not watching it on TV, because there were no replays in the stadium. We had no clue how bad Theisman's injury was. We also had no clue that it was the beginning of an era of unsteadiness at quarterback for the Redskins.  Jay Schroeder (besides having a phonetically incorrect name...) was not good. He wasn't good with the Redskins. He wasn't good with the Raiders. He wasn't even a good baseball player (just ask the Toronto Blue Jays).  Rob Johnson has a target on his back. Or he smells like pork chops. I'm not sure which, but big defensive lineman start salivating when they see him in a game.   As much of a target as he is, at least he usually holds onto the ball.  Unlike....  Tony Banks has 73 fumbles in 89 games.  Are you kidding me?  This guy's in the NFL?  Danny, Danny, Danny.  Small hands.  Wears a glove.  Has an arm like a Girl Scout.  Must have incriminating photos of Steve Spurrier.  That's the only possible explanation I can see for the OBC continually turning to him.   And what is there to say about Heath Shuler that hasn't already been said?  The third overall pick in the 1994 draft, between Marshall Faulk and Willie McGinnist.  His career numbers:  49.2% completion percentage, 3691 yards, 15 TD,  33 INTs .  Wow.  He was worth every penny.      
        5.  Appetite for Destruction  - Guns N' Roses 4.  Back in Black -  AC/DC 3.  This Desert Life  - Counting Crows 2.  When I Woke  - Rusted Root  1.   Kind of Blue  - Miles Davis      Appetite  and  Back in Black  are easy. They're loud. They block out noise through sheer volume. The others are a little more subtle. They all have a way of sharpening my focus to help me shut things out.  This Desert Life  does it by sucking me in with great lyrics.   When I Woke  uses  persistant, driving rhythms.  And then there's  Kind of Blue ...   Kind of Blue  has a sort of perfect imperfection about it. For most albums the musicians do take after take, trying to perfect parts, then the producers and engineers assemble the takes into something "perfect". Miles refused to let that happen on Kind of Blue. His band (John Coletrane, Cannonball Adderly, Bill Evans, Paul Chambers, and Jimmy Cobb) were trying something new: modal jazz. The tonality of the pieces was built from modal scales instead of chord changes. Miles had learned the concept from George Russel (who was working on his   urlLink Lydian Chromatic Concept of Tonal Organization  ) and briefly tried it out on  Milestones . But  Kind of Blue  was the first full-length album to employ modal jazz, and Miles wanted to capture it raw.  The result is breathtaking. Masterful musicians pushing their boundries, trying things for the first time, sometimes failing, usually succeeding. It's likely that Miles could have recorded more takes and gotten more polished tracks on the album. It's inconcievable that they would made a better album.  All that being said, I'm not sure why it's so effective at blocking other people out.  It just is.   
        5.  The Monday Night Football Theme  4.  Sympathy for the Devil  - The Rolling Stones 3.  Cannonball -  Damien Rice 2.  I Wanna Rock  - Twisted Sister 1.  The Chicken Dance      Is there a more  urlLink insidious  and  urlLink banal  song in existance than The Chicken Dance? I vote "No". The rest of the songs I can understand: I saw a commercial for Monday Night Football last night; I intentionally listened to  Cannonball  and  Sympathy for the Devil  yesterday; my roomate's cellphone ringer is  I Wanna Rock  (which is an interesting character sketch...but that's a different story).  I literally have  no  idea why  The Chicken Dance  popped into my head.  Haven't heard it in months.  Just another example of the tremendous power of music to do evil.      
        5.   Mission Bells   -  urlLink Fighting Gravity  4.   Quick -    urlLink Eddie From Ohio     (yes, they're from Virginia)  3.   Slumber   -  urlLink Buzby  2.   Queen of Quiet   -  urlLink Erin McKeown  1.     Two Step  -  urlLink Dave Matthews Band     It's possible that most people have not heard of the first four artists/bands. Well, now you know they rule and you should check them out. You can't use ignorance as an excuse anymore.    If you haven't heard of Dave Matthews Band you need to stop looking at internet porn every once in a while. Even if you have a casual knowledge of the band (i.e.-what you've heard on the radio) you may not have heard  Two Step . The song's driving, captivating beat is combined with typical DMB lyrics (we're all going to die, stop worrying about it enjoy what we've got).    If you've been to a DMB concert however, you know why this song is numero uno.  The album version (on  urlLink  Crash  ) is really, really good. But in concert the song can easily become an 18 minute epic, showcasing the musicianship and talent of each of the band's members. Check the version on   urlLink Listener Supported   or   urlLink Live at Red Rocks  .  Better yet, track down a  urlLink hard-core DMB fan  and ask for better versions from non-released concerts.  On CD the song is excellent; in concert it's magical.   
        5.   Me and the Devil Blues   - Robert Johnson 4.  Hells Bells  - AC/DC    3.    Friend of the Devil   - Grateful Dead 2.   Devil Went Down to Georgia   - Charlie Daniels 1.    Sympathy for the Devil   -  urlLink Rolling Stones    Robert Johnson makes the list because, as legend has it, he sold his soul to the devil at a crossroads in exchange for being the best guitar player around.  This song reinforces the myth.  Why is Sympathy for the Devil #1? Because everything about it, from the  urlLink lyrics  to the arrangement, helps set the scene of the song. The intro, with the unusual percussion and unsettling grunts and yells tell the listener that this is no normal story. The percussion and simple bass line provide a constant forward motion to the rolling piano lines. Above all of this is Mick Jagger's masterful performance, painting the portrait of a Lucifer as a sophisticated and elegant figure. By the time the backing vocals chime in with their persistant "Whoo hoo"s it's easy to picture Jagger as a smart-dressed demon, dancing like James Brown, flanked by impish background singers.  
      Forget his name, Forget his face, Forget his smile, his warm embrace. Forget him when they play his song, Forget you cried the whole night long. Forget how close you two once were, Remember, he has chosen her. Forget you memorized his walk, Forget the way he used to talk. Forget the things he used to say, Remember he has gone away. Forget his laugh, Forget his grin, Forget the dimples on his chin. Forget the way he held you tight, Remember he's with her tonight. Forget the times that went so fast, Forget the love that now has passed. Forget he said he'd never leave you, Remember - she will NEVER be you.  *-In every girl's life there's a guy she'll never forget and a summer where it all started-*  Never make someone your priority while allowing yourself to be their option.  "Sometimes I wish I had never met you because then I could go to sleep at night not knowing that there was someone like you out there."-Good Will Hunting  As we grow up, we learn that the one person who isn't supposed to let you down, probably will, and the one person that you never thought would be there for you, is. You're going to have fights with your friends, you're going to lose some of your friends, you may even fall in love with one of your friends. You will eventually lose someone you love - and love someone you never thought you'd find. People are going to hate you, love you, love to hate you, and hate to love you, but the ones you mean the most to will always be there. Life is too short. So have way too much fun - make way too many mistakes - take way too many pictures - have way too many friends and enemies - laugh way too much for way too long - cry over the smallest of things. But most importantly... Love with all you have.  Beauty is in the eye of the beholder, but it may be necessary from time to time to give a stupid or misinformed beholder a black eye. *Miss Piggy*  *I'm not an idiot. I know how the world works. I've got ten bucks in my pocket, I have nothing to offer you and I know that. But I'm too involved now. You jump, I jump, remember? I can't turn away without knowing you'll be alright-Titanic 
            Another shitty day..but what can u do! I've been thinkin a lot lately..I dunno if thats a good thing or not! Just crushed that Brians moving soon..which brings up the breakup. Its really hard cuz i've never met anyone like him before..he's different..i'm scared someone else out there is going to find out how amazing he is..and i'll be out of luck..but there's nothing i can do about it..you can't make someone want you the way you want them..:(..hm..anywayz! new subject! I went w/ Ash to her Dr. appointment and then to her ultrasound!!! ITS A BOY! :) It was awesome to see the baby!!! It was moving around the whole time!! It took like 45 minutes..She gotta like 10 different pics to take home..They're soo cute! We've heard the heartbeat twice now! And then this morning i went to Winthrop with Em,Ciera, and Ciera's baby (Adrianna) to look at Em's senior pics..so i have a lotta anxiety about that too! woo-hoo. more shit to think about! I don't have anything planned for that...haven't picked the place, clothes, backgrounds or anything yet..really prepared,huh? oh well..yeah, tomorrow I'm getting my hair done so maybe that'll make me feel a lil better..who knows..Goin 2 the salon usually helps..I'm getting black chunks in my hair...my hair is already dark..so its not that drastic..maybe if i like it i'll go all black?! Its not like it really matters tho..  
            Last Friday night i went to "The Notebook" and i really liked it! It was inspiration because it showed that true love does exist! But thats a movie...and we live in reality..rarely do u see that kind of love/compassion for each other these days. I see love in its truest form in older married couples. They've stayed by each others side for so long they can't imagine life w/o the other..Couples that have been married 40+ years..Who else can love u more than ur best friend..thats what it basically comes down to! I remember when my Grandpa was alive (passed away January 23,2004) he would always carry my Grandmas purse when they were out. Even tho it was huge and full of stuff she didnt really need..but wanted with..he was holding it for her cuz she couldn't..When i would see this i'd always think to myself.."thats what i want when I'm older, someone to care for me the way i saw them care for each other." It prolly doesn't mean as much to u as it does to me..But that reminded seeing this movie made me think of them..If u see the movie u'll understand what i mean about how older couples cherish each other...  
       It's me again:) I wrote a blog before this one but for some reason i lost all of it when i was trying to post it! oh well..Today, fortunately, i don't have to work..so i'm kinda just spending the day trying to sort out my feelings! One thing i decided is that i'm going to be at truce with my body..no more punishing my body..no more self-hate..I'm done with that chapter in my life..count ur blessings, not ur blemishes! I am proud to say i gave up my Eating Disorder last weekend! I didn't love myself..so i couldn't believe how others could love me..i didn't understand! It was amazing for me to believe Jesus gave his life for ME! I am His!  
      Here i am again..starting off another day, I'm really excited about YFC (Youth For Christ) tonight! A few of my wonderful friends from TEC are planning on going so i'm looking forward to see 'em! :) aw, I'm in a really good mood right now b'cuz i just got done talking w/ Brian on the phone! It's funny how talkin 2 someone can cheer up ur day. I'm just amazed by him. I went 2 the library yesterday w/ Emily 'n got some books..I'm reading 'Angels Watching Over Me' by Lurlene McDaniel. I haven't really started it yet, but the title reminds me so much of my friends! ~Good friends are like stars, you don't always see them but you know they're always there~"Friends are angels that come from above. Sent down from  God  for you to love. So if you are sad, and don't know what to do. Just remember that I care for  you !" They are the reason I'm here today! (along with God's help) THANK U ALL 4 UR SUPPORT THROUGHOUT THE YEARS! love u!!!! take care!             rAcHeL 
       For those of you that have never been to a TEC before you're probably wondering what my '4th day' means...I experienced a TEC this last weekend which is 3 days long..and every day after the retreat is your '4th day'. Today I am just mixed with so many emotions! I feel refreshed from a wonderful weekend! Anxious to help other ppl and to start a new beginning, Sad and hurt cuz brians leaving soon, Happy that  i met so many awesome ppl this weekend:), Grateful that i found God's love, Excited that Emilys going to a TEC:),and so much more!! I have feelings that i don't even know how to describe! Life means so much more to me now! Sooo many people influenced my life lately that I don't even know how to thank them...They are truly  angels of God . Yet, with all of this hope and ambitions for the future, and wanting to make a difference...I'm still hurting in the inside..I know i have to let go of someone special soon..and its not easy..he has done so much for me, and i have to watch him walk away..the worst part is i know he doesn't feel 4 me the way i feel 4 him,i haven't touched him the way he's touched my life, and he doesnt need me like i need him. But i guess thats the way life goes...  
      See also my entry on Saudi efforts to  urlLink distract  Americans with a public relations campaign.  From a  urlLink MEMRI translation of Saudi Armed Forces "Know your Enemy" article.    Saudi Armed Forces Journal on the Jews: 'The Fabricated Torah, Talmud, and Protocols of the Elders of Zion Command Destruction of All Non-Jews for World Domination'   And this is different from what Adolf Hitler and Osama Bin Laden have said because?  Don your tinfoil turbans and enter into the nuanced world of blatant anti-Semitism.    
      As those of you who have sated your primal desires to read my profile know, today is my last day on Earth as a 33-year old human being.  Tomorrow is my birthday.   Now, as happens every year, I don't know what I "want" for my birthday any more than I do for Christmas. Gifts are cool, gimme gimme, but don't ask me what I want. I don't know.   I think my fiance is getting me a cell phone, like hers. Her cellphone has e-mail, video games, TV channels, limited range mind control laser targeting, the works.   Hell, I don't even wear a watch, which is the 3rd most evil thing mankind has ever invented, behind #2 - Nuclear Weapons, and #1 - Pepsi-Cola.   I guess it's time for me have a cell phone too.    
      I noticed new cameras in the parking lot of my designated living space.   Cameras are everywhere. I've read somewhere that the average British citizen is photographed some 10,000 times a day by various things - security cameras, traffic monitors, ATMs, the like.   I think it's spreading to America. You see cameras on buses. Some people are even sick enough to have cameras hooked to their computer.   Me, I hate cameras. Not as much as I hate clowns (I REALLY HATE CLOWNS - I'll save that for later) but cameras really make me feel like I'm in prison. Watch out for the long-hair, he might whip out a comb and make sure he's presentable. Not. It's Big Brotherish.    "Mr. Beamish, We  know  that you ordered 5 White Castle Cheeseburgers and they gave you 20...."    I guess I long for a time when the only people taking pictures of me were relatives, wedding parties, the driver's license bureau, cops, and Japanese tourists.      
      As I was driving this morning jamming out to some good music, I heard a strange message on the radio.  The  urlLink Kingdom of Saudi Arabia,  fresh from their  urlLink proclaimed victory  against  urlLink "Zionists,"  have begun targeting nineteen American metropolitan areas with an  urlLink advertising campaign  to promote their warm and fuzziness. The attacks will continue through September 6th. Radio listeners in the following zone improvement plans are advised to turn off their radios and televisions and play  urlLink forbidden music  from tapes, CDs, and mp3s until the crisis is averted:   Atlanta, Georgia Baltimore, Maryland Birmingham, Alabama Boston, Massachussetts Chicago, Illinois Cleveland, Ohio Dallas, Texas Detroit, Michigan Houston, Texas Kansas City, Missouri Memphis, Tennessee Minneapolis, Minnesota Oklahoma City, Oklahoma Phoenix, Arizona Portland, Maine St. Louis Missouri Seattle, Washington Tampa, Florida Washington, DC   There is no word yet on how many barrels of oil this media blitz will cost.
      Mrs. Beamish-to-be and I have finally convinced her mother, who suffers from  urlLink Bush Derangement Syndrome , to not vote for Kerry. But, she's going to vote for Ralph Nader.  urlLink [She better bring a pen.]  At least he's honest about his hatred for anything that makes sense, in a  urlLink Dennis-Kucinich -is-a-sellout sort of way. The military NEEDS those  urlLink orbital mind control lasers , you  urlLink  goofball  .     And after Molly Ivins has  urlLink fled to Canada , the media are finally  urlLink answering the draft  and turning their microscopes on Kerry. A little.  Now let's see if they'll  urlLink take the lens cap off.  
      That makes us legally insane in most states.  
      References to Bush pull up MoDo's  Bushworld  on the "ads by google."  The machines are crafty but they have no soul.  
      Absolutely.  You wanna know why I started this blog?  Because they killed Winston Smith, that's why, beeyotch!  So, if you're depressed about this slump America's in, where the whole world is  supposed to be playa hatin on us coz we up and done it to Iraq, everybody's rights are being trampled, nobody is gettin paid, we need health care reform, and the dogs are on our ass...  ...at least according to the Kerry campaign, the liberal media, Hollywood, and the state-controlled media of regimes that are hostile to the United States around the world, lighten up.  You can come to St. Louis and get your  urlLink bling-bling  on. This is front page news. Excuse me, I'm sorry. This is front page, above the fold, left column news.  How long until John Kerry "pimps the grill" on his rhetorical  urlLink blackface act ?  This is irony, clogging the memory hole.   "KERRY / EDWARDS 2004 -- BECAUSE A TICKET THIS FULL OF SHIT NEEDS TWO JOHNS"
      President Bush. Bush in 2004. George W. Bush. Bush. Bush Bush.  (now let's see if "ads by google" stops advertising Kerry schwag on my blog.)  Bush. Bush. Bush. Bush. Bush.  Bush.  Bush.  Bush.  
      I'm a people watcher. Reality happens when you turn off the TV.  So anyway, I'm standing in line at the grocery store behind this old man, and he's angry. No, scratch that. He's pissed.  Seems that the old man just wants to pay for his items and go home (like me, behind him) but the cashier is trying to get the old man's name, address, and phone number even though he's paying with cash.  CASHIER: "I  need  your information for the computer, sir..."  OLD MAN: "Why? Are you going to come over to my house and f*ck me?"   Of course, this turns the whole rote-training customer service manual on its head, so Cashier Girl is panicking and calling for back-up when another cashier leans in and says "Just take his money and let him go," as she rolls her eyes and blends back into the background. The old man continues to rant about "how computers have made the world stupid." Cashier Girl is almost in tears. I almost felt a twinge of empathy for her.  Talk about a scene that should be in a movie.   
       urlLink "Terrorists" with NBC gear  were arrested attempting to acquire a helicopter.    Arlene Thomas grew suspicious when two men with out-of-state drivers licenses and a large wad of cash came into her Sauget helicopter hangar Wednesday morning and said they wanted to see St. Louis landmarks from the sky.   The men, whom Thomas described to police as of "Middle Eastern descent," were carrying a duffel bag and a backpack and drove up in a rental car with Texas license plates.     Who knows where this story will go. My money's on screaming rants about racial profiling and discriminating against Muslimistic-looking people by CAIR.  [update] 11:25AM  What would the NBC News story have been if their stunt was successful? "Look world, how easy it is to take helicopters for joy-rides in America."  I'm with the airport director guy in the article. How dare NBC News create a false alarm and scare up first responders unnecessarily in MY city? ::Dark Knight Batman voice::   
      I went on a quest for  urlLink John Kerry's positions on issues  and found:   SENATOR JOHN FORBES KERRY REFUSED TO PROVIDE ANY RESPONSES TO CITIZENS ON ISSUES THROUGH THE NATIONAL POLITICAL AWARENESS TEST   SENATOR JOHN FORBES KERRY REFUSED TO PROVIDE THIS INFORMATION WHEN ASKED TO DO SO ON 23 SEPARATE OCCASIONS BY:  MSNBC CBS News Cox Newspapers Knight Ridder National Journal MTV New Hampshire Public Broadcasting Tucson Citizen St. Paul Pioneer Press Portsmouth Herald Nashua Telegraph Iowa Public Radio Ames Daily Tribune Cedar Rapids Gazette Iowa City Press The State (SC) WYY Philadelphia San Jose Mercury News Geraldine Ferraro, Former Democratic Congresswoman Michael Dukakis, Fomer Democratic Congressman Bill Frenzel, Former Republican Congressman Jim Leach, Republican Congressman Richard Kimball, Project Vote Smart President     [Kerry forgot to articulate any ideas or state any policy positions at the Democratic National Convention as well.]  Seems the fine journalists over at theonion.com have finally figured out  urlLink where Kerry stands .   It seems you and I both are qualified to be President. We're not Bush either.  
      ...at the  urlLink John Kerry for President 2004  campaign. Here's a guy that wants you to look at  urlLink "his record"  (but won't talk of his  urlLink war protesting,  his dismal Senate career, or release his military records), wants you to talk to the  urlLink "men he served with"  (but is threatening lawsuits to silence the men he served with, the Swift Vets for Truth), keeps talking about "internationalizing" the Iraq reconstruction effort (while primarily non-American contract workers are being kidnapped and beheaded to terrorize non-American countries into withdrawing  their  troops and workers from Iraq), and wants to settle the Iranian quest for nuclear weapons (by  urlLink GIVING the Iranians enriched uranium .)  My question for Mr. Kerry, should I infiltrate a town hall debate -  "Senator Kerry, do you even remotely have a f*ckin' clue what you're talking about? No, no. Look at me, not your staff, bitch. Do you even have any idea how abso-f*ckin goofy you are?"  Alas, politics remains unrefined.  
      Is there anybody out there?  Good. Now that we're completely alone, let me tell you a thing or two about what's really going on.  The government has mind control lasers in orbit right now forcing innocent people all around the world to listen to  urlLink self-confessed war criminal John Kerry  talk about how much the world hates America.  Otherwise, people might question his patriotism.   
       Hay Again All!!    Right now; as some of y'all may know I'm in p.e.i. Well there's not too much do do hurr tonight so I thought I'd put out a couple of shouts!! Lmao!! I think for roght now I'll just put in the girls!! Haha!    *Krista- Hay there!! You're like the sister that I never had! Well I do have a sister but lets not get into that!! Lmao! Ya have one of the best smiles I know!! So keep that frown turned upside down and let your smile shine through!! Keep on keeping on! ;)   *Amber- 'Lo Burr!! I don't know what I do without your crazie love quotes, or your crazie sence on humor!! Lots of Love!!   *Marv- Hay Hommie!! (As you would say!) I'm missing you lots!! Come on home!! If I don't see ya before summer ends I'll see ya on the bus!! Later Tater!   *Maggs- Magen! Magen! Magen!! My blast from he past!! Ya always have something uplifting to say!! I'm hopping we can get together some time and chill! Bubye!!   *Kait- Hay Kiddo!! I love you and your dolls!! There amazing!! But I'm still not digging the one of me w/ no hair!! Lmao!! Byye!!   *Melissa- There's only one thing to say hurr!! In the words of you...."Sorry wrong leg!" Lmao!! Gotta love those memories!! ;)   *Beth- 'Lo Joe! Haha!! I look forward to comin' to p.e.i. to chill with you!! We'll be hanging out in a couple of days as a matter of fact!! Lmao!! See ya then!   *Robyne- Hay!! I hope I spelt the name right!! Anyway! I'll be looking forwar to your next visit...I missed you the last time!! Gotta love them dogs we used to play with in the front yard!! Miss ya!!   *Jade-I'm missing you so much!! And I still have your braclette!! ;) Hahaa!! Now I'll always have a piece of you!! Lmao! Keep in touch!!   *Pageant Girls- Y'all were great! And we so have to hang out way more often!!! You guys made the pageant worth while!! Love y'all!!   *901 Girls- Love you guys sooo much!! I wish we were all in the same class again next year!! But Oh well Ya gotta meet new people!! God love the memories!! Good luck in the future!!   *801 Girls!!- Soon to be 901!! Y'all are taking our class!! Good luck with the Robert!! Have a great last year in junior high!! Have extra fun at prom too! Later Gaters!!   *My Little Sisters- They would be Lacey and Megan!! See you guys around! There's too much to say bought you two...I see the both of yas like everyday! Lmao!!   *Sherie- I totally miss meeting at your house!! Haha!! Remember the lobster and the baby on the ceiling?!?! Lmao!! See ya soon!!!   *Tia- You stoled my crown!! Lmao! I was supposed to be queen! Hah! Naw ya did good!! Later Chickie!   *Ladies From Steubenville- Miss you guys like crazie!! Well the ones I don't see! I'm sure I'll see some of yas around!! Lmao!! I miss your laugh Julia!! Good times!! Byyes!!    Well Thats about It!! If I missed any of yas I'm so sorry!! Just drop me a line or something!! It doesn't mean I don't love yas!!    Bye All!!  
       Hay Everyone!!    As y'all know this past thursday I was in a pageant!! Well was that ever fun!! The ladies in it were : Sarah Awalt, Kathy Curran, Amber Hanrahan, Ashley Hickey, Me, Alexa La Pierre, Tia Larkin, Amanda Lunn, Stacey MacMullen, Krista Wheeler, Kelsey Zinck and Kristin Zinck.    We all arrived at 5:30 to practice our walk and get our make-up done. WoW!! Y'all would not believe the make-up the put on us!! I felt like I was a cake and they were iceing me!! Lmao!! Then after what seemed like forever we finally put our dresses on!    Once we got out on stage the support from the crowd was fanominal!! After running back to the music room to get changed there were clothes flying everywhere!! Then it was time for our back to school outfits! (YaY!) I honestly didn't think I did too well on that therefore I wasn't thinking I would make it into the top 6!!    Then, of course it was time for the dance! Lmao!! It was so stupid ...I loved it!!    Then it came time to anounce Miss Congeniality! Congrats Ashley!! SMILE!! We all knew you were getting it!!      By the time the top 6 were to be anouncedwe all were goin crazie!! Finally the names where starting to be called: First up it was Kristin, and then me! I was in shock!! I'm not quite sure of the order after that but the other four ladies were: Amber, Tia, Krista, and Kelsey. Then there was the question and answer session! Unfortunatly I did not get the Iraq question even though I had a good answer for it.    So, in order to make it more nerve racking they had an intermission. While the potential top 3 practiced our speech the others hurried to make sure we all looked ok! (Teeth Check!!!) When we got back on stage the intermission was not over. Therefore in order to cool off and have some more fun we all began dancing!! Lmao!! I guess you could see us all!!    Then the time to anounce the top 3 came along! When they called me first i was really not expecting it!! I guess the look on my face was priceless! Along with me for the ride was Kristin and Tia. The speeches were great!! A lot of fun to do aswell!! At the end the final standing were: Tia Larkin-Queen 2004 Kristin Zinck-First Runner Up Kaleigh Irving-Second Runner Up     Thanks so much to everyone who made this possible!! You made this experiance worth while!!     Later!!     
       Hay-lo!    The tea party was great!! No tea!! Lmao!!    I just wanted to add a quick little update before the pageant tomorrow (holy shit!). At the tea party we finally got to meet the judges and they were pretty cool. Except for one guy he was a little creepy looking and he always gave me mean looks!! They just asked us question about ourselves, our family, our interests, and other normal questions. It was a little long though (I found!), we were there from 645 till 930!!!    Afterwards Krista, Amber and I went to Chicago Way Pizzeria. Well that was fun we ate and ate!! Lmao! On the way to the Irving I had on Krista's shoes....Well!! I twisted my ankle and then! In the process of trying to keep my balance I smacked my head into a pole. Well I fell onto the ground and was killing myself laughing and then these two gangsters walked by!! Lmao!! That made me laugh even harder!! Needless to say we had a fun night!!    The Pink Panthers (under 16 girls soccer) won their challenge cup game!! 3-1!! Awesome job girls!! Hope y'all do as good tonight too!! I wish I was there!! Good luck!!    Later!  
        Hay All!          The tea party is tonight...YaY!! It should be cool to meet the judges but there's only one problem.....I don't like tea!! Lmao!! I'm goin to Krista's a little later to get my hair done! LoL!! I think Amber's coming up too! That's if she finishes her speech!! Haha!         The questions are really getting to me! They're nuts! If I make it to the top six all I hope is that I don't get the Iraq question; a couple people already now my answer for that!! "Do you think that it was a good decision not to send our troops to Iraq?" "Yes, I do think it was a good decision because the Americans are killing enough of us already; we don't need the Iraqis (?) killing us too!" My mother will kill me!!        The dance for the pageant is definatly interesting!! Lmao!! It's the best! Don't doubt that I'll be up there killing myself laughing during the dance!! It's a darn good thing that we not get marked on it!!         I've decided that I'm not going in a convertible in the parade!!! Lmao!! I'm going in a little red wagon!!! Melissa's little red wagon if I can get it!! And then for Jade I'm gonna fall out of it in the middle of the parade!! Haha!        Well I best go prepare for tonight!   Byyye!         
       I really want visitors on my website, however I won't post the link. I will say that it is in my profile and ask that you please visit though. ;-)  
        If you were here I'd never have a fear. So go on live your life. But I miss you more than I did yesterday.  You're beautiful  Well I'm a total wreck and almost every day. Like the firing squad or the mess you made. Well don't I look pretty walking down the street. In the best damn dress I own?  If you were here I'd never have a fear. So go on live your life. But I miss you more than I did yesterday. You're so far away. So c'mon show me how. 'Cause I mean this more than words can ever say.  Some might say we are made from the sharpest things you say We are young and we don't care. Your dreams and your hopeless hair. We never wanted it to be this way. For all our lives. Do you care at all?  If you were here I'd never have a fear. So go on live your life. But I miss you more than I did yesterday. You're so far away. So c'mon show me how. 'Cause I mean this more than words can ever say.  
       I am sure there is some sick bastard out there able to track me down. If you ever see me walking out of my house I want you to shoot me dead, as many times as it takes.  
       Maybe I just need to do anything and everything no matter how much it goes against my beliefs and values to survive. I'll go away and surround myself with a million friends, all guys of course. And forget about whomever was in my life before.       I'll never look back.  
       I just wish there was some meaning to my life, some purpose for even being here.  
       I would very much like to cut out my ovaries and sew my vagina shut.  
        I want to see garden state and constantine.      Tony said good things about garden state. Plus I seem to have an obsession with jersey I only partially understand, and am curious about the guy from scrubs creating the whole thing and all..   
       This is turning out to be  the month from HELL !  
         NO MORE JUNK FOOD OF ANY KIND WHATSOEVER AND ONLY DRINKING WATER.               the end    
       I fucking  hate  men  
       I don't know what the fuck I'm doing anymore. Just a warning. I won't post much, and I won't say much when I do. 
        So there's this life I'm living, and only some know about parts of it, and I can't really write yet about any of it. Every time I find somewhere I think I'm comfortable writing, someone steps in and takes that feeling away, swiftly and murderously. I like to write, it's obvious, I've been doing it for years, but I like to write what I want, about whatever I want, and it's hard to do so while striving for anynomity. I hate having to hide behind a mask of unrecognizable features, just to tell the story of my life. The true story of my life, no frills, no strings attached, the real deal. But there some who who'd most definitely not approve, and though I can't blame her for getting upset at the things I do and think about, I can't help it, it's just how I am. It's the life I live, and I'm still not being very specific. Do you know, that if she were to read this, she'd hound me until the year's end asking what I'm talking about, what things in my life I do but can't write about, what would upset her, blah blah, and we all know how that goes, surely. So instead, I find another spot, and take my time trying to find comfort in that spot, with intent to eventually just write everything. I tire of taking out a pen and notebook, jotting everything down, while knowing I'm the only one who gets to read it. I'm a bit conceited, self-centered maybe, when I say I want others to hear my story, too. That's what these sites are all about, though, writing as a sort of entertainment towards others. That's just what we all like to do.  So with that all said, give me a few more entries where no one specifically is asking me anything, and I'll start writing about the real thing. Until then, please bare with my rambling.    
        And I can't really talk about it, yet. Not until I'm comfortable with this website. I've been everywhere, written so many different things, and I always feel censured, restricted. I'll explain, in due time.   
        This post is simply to view and then edit the appearance of this particular journaling site.  Mind the changes.  
       It feels like fall is arriving a little early this year.  I cannot believe that we are having such mild temps in August.  This is usually the hottest month we have here in Tennessee.  I will stop sounding like I am shocked and just be happy that it is so pleasant :).      I actually have all of our windows open, too, and can feel a wonderful breeze going through the house.      I tried really hard to get the boys outside today.  We went out for "maybe" 30 minutes this morning.  Thirty whole minutes!  I took Pixie out and tied her down to her little tie out thing and she was going nuts trying to get to me.  It was so funny to watch.  I had planned to just sit outside and work on my blanket, but ended up digging up weeds instead.      During our thirty minutes out there, a huge black cloud came up and really cooled things down.  After I had dug out all of the weeds that I was planning to pull, I let everyone come in.  It was lunch time anyways and Pixie was so much happier :).      Going to buy some groceries tomorrow.  Woohoo!  I absolutely hate going to the grocery store!  Hate it, hate it, hate it!!!  But we do need to eat and since we are scrapping the bottom of the barrel, we really need to get some more food.  However, I do know that whatever we manage to buy will have to last us for about three full weeks until Tim's next pay check.  Stretching out the food yet again.  It never ends and I feel like no matter how much we struggle we are never going to see that light at the end of the tunnel.      On top of having to buy groceries, we also have to buy the kids shoes, clothes and supplies for school.  UGH!!  I really wish our school district would get on the bandwagon with sending out the school supply list early.  Shoot, I would settle for having them mail them out to us a week or so before school starts.  But will they do that??  NO WAY!!!  We will not get our supply lists until the first day of school and then will get the lucky job of having to fight everyone else for what supplies we need.  As if having to buy all of these supplies is stressful enough esp with our finances, lets throw in a crowd of people fighting over left overs.     
       I have a little bragging to do today. I weighed in (actually yesterday) and discovered that I have lost 4 whole pounds. Again, "Yay for me"!      I have always been someone that struggles with my weight. My hubby and I have decided that we are ready to start doing whatever we can to lose some much needed weight. All we have done so far is to cut back A LOT on what we eat. Since February when his position changed at work, he is now home every evening, so we started eating a lot more; mainly sweets. So, we have cut them out and only allow ourselves something sweet (only in moderation) over the weekend. Aside from cutting out the sweets, I have been drinking green tea (which is said to increase your energy levels), a lot more water and not drinking as much caffeine, and cutting way back on the amount of food that I am eating. I eat mostly chicken for my dinner every day, but will only eat half of a piece and save the other half for lunch the next day. As for veggies, well, I have these plastic serving utensils that I use to scoop out food onto everyone's plate and I will only make one scoop (sometimes not even a whole one) for my plate.      Tim, on the other hand, has just about stopped eating. I worry about him starving himself like that. He is basically eating a few crackers while he is at work and then eating whatever I serve to him for dinner. That is it! Doesn't sound too healthy to me, but I think he is just trying to get his stomach to shrink a little.      Haven't done any exercising, yet. It is my plan to start trying to do a workout every day once school starts back up for the kids. However, I have no idea (right now) how I am going to manage this since the only vcrs we have are all in bedrooms. Needless to say, our bedroom is way to crowded (with JUNK) to attempt doing a workout in there. So that leaves me having to use one of the kids' rooms for my workout. Guess we shall see how that turns out. Of course, I could try to sell my vhs tapes and try to get some workouts on dvd. Hmmmm, that is a thought.      
        Believe it or not, we are now having some cooler weather here in Tennessee. We had some rain yesterday and last night and today it is SOOO gorgeous out there. Still looks like the bottom is going to drop at any time, though. I have even heard that we will be having lows this weekend in the 50s. Awww, sounds so pleasant. I can't wait to be able to sleep with the windows open :).   I have still been playing around with the codes today. I added the Weather Pixie today ;). Trying really hard to figure out how to do a calendar in here, but haven't been able to figure that one out yet. Have come across a couple of codes, but none of them were exactly what I was wanting :(.  Still trudging along on this last blanket. I think out of the three, I like this one the best :P. It is going to look so pretty when it is finally done.  Tim is not going to have to work this weekend "Yay". Well, I say, "Yay", but I think he is feeling a little disgusted because he has had problems with the things that they were going to be making LIVE this weekend. Could not get any technical help with any of it either, so they are putting it off until September 11th and when I hear that date, I have to say, "Mmmm" or let out a big sigh.  Took the boys to the library today. They weren't too sure if they wanted to go, though. I checked out two chapter books for Taylor, a couple of easy readers for Jacob and Phillip got a Yugioh (sp) book with codes and what not for the game.  I looked for the 5th Harry Potter book, but they didn't have it. I did see one book for Toxic People and how to deal with the ones in your life and another book called Friendshifts. I didn't check either of them out because they look SOOO long and I was really wanting HP (haha). Maybe next time....   
       Sorry that it has been a few days since I posted. I have been playing around with the coding and figured out how to add buttons. So, "Yay for me"! I am also very slowly learning how to change the color of things in here to be more of what I like. Just bear with me :).  I have now completed two of the baby blankets and am working on the third one. I started the third one yesterday, but did not like how it was coming out. I ended up having to go dig out another blanket I made in this same pattern just so I could try to determine how the pattern should go and then restarting the blanket again. I am so much happier with this pattern than the one that I was trying to do.  I sent out the newsletter a little earlier. I have even collected several articles that I can use in future newsletters. Now I just need some sponsors to sponsor a contest for us again.  
         I finished the first blanket out of the three blanket order and started to work on the next one. I would say that I am over a 1/4 of the way done with it already ;). I have received the info (specifics) for another blanket, but haven't actually received payment yet, so I guess we will wait and see about that one.      I found a couple of bookmark patterns that I really like. I hope to start on one of them really soon. I also came across a pattern for a scrunchy that I think I can manipulate to be a keychain.      Still trying to learn how to add things in here. I hope to have some buttons added soon, but I am not that great with HTML so you will have to bear with me. It is something that I might play around with over the weekend while Tim is gone. He is leaving for Florida in the morning, flying down, staying the night and driving back on Sunday. Should make for a long weekend.    
        The weather has been a bit gloomy today. We had some storms roll through in the middle of the night and I guess the gloominess decided to stick around. It feels wonderful out there with a nice breeze and no humidity at all, but just gray skies. Ick!      On a good note, I have finished up the first blanket out of my three blanket order that I received over the weekend. I hope to start on the second blanket tomorrow.      Another good note is that I have been contacted about another blanket. Yay! I am just floored by these orders all of a sudden. I think it is the Lord's way of blessing me with things to do since school is about to start back. I have been dreading school starting because I, again, will be all alone with time to think and dwell (which is never good) and now I am getting blanket orders and I am about to be really involved with things in two groups that I belong to. One group is Crochetville  urlLink  (http://p084.ezboard.com/bcrochetville  ) and I will be helping out with a yarn swap :). The other group is Middle Tennessee Moms ( urlLink http://p072.ezboard.com/bmiddletennesseemoms ) where I am going to help out with running some events within the group. I am so excited!             
       Spent some time today working on the newsletter and got it sent out by 8:30. That is a big deal for me because it usually takes me a couple of hours to finish up the newsletter and then get it sent out. I had the newsletter out this morning by the time I am usually getting online. So, "Yay" for me ;).      I have an order for three blankets that came in this past weekend that I am currently working on. I worked for a couple of hours on one of the blankets earlier this morning. Should have it completed no later than this weekend.    
       I have just created this blog and am still in the process of learning my way around.  I hope to post current crochet projects that I am working on as well as events that I am participating in.  
       :) wow guess wat. i made the team for volleyball i was excited. and i made jv too! but im kinda sad tho cuz all my friends made sophmore so i dont get to play with them:( hmms...oh well wat can i do. but omg im so so so so soooooooooooo very tired man. and sore. lol my butt hurts so bad. but i have practice everyday from 8-1 ahhhh. im sick of going. but yay were leavin the 23 ithink for glennwood springs im happy cuz i need a vacation. hehe well im bored and have nothen to talk about so cya  
      hey i just got home from taco bell. ya it was good. lol but i really havent been online to blog much so i guess i got some catchin up to do!! well im kinda bummed right now! i got my schedual and ya my friends and i have like no classes together wat so ever. not even the same lunch; no that sucks! ya but im very anxious for tomorrow cuz we find out if we make the team or not(for volleyball) but ya i did okay on serving and setting...but my defense isnt the best lol. oh well cuz were playing this thing called the trojan tournament and its like queen of the court. its fun and exciting but anyways i started out on the sophmore court then i moved up to jv court and ive been playin there ever since. i hadnt had to move down lol yay!!! i was so proud...but ah tomorrow we have to run the mile again. :( pssh thats so dumb. we already ran it on monday. but my time was 8:33 to be exact! haha not super good, not horrible either. but alotta people got after 10 minutes! so i guess im good. dont really have to worry about that. Okay wat else is new. oh i cut my hair. my shortest layer is to my shoulder and the rest are a little below that. eh? and i dyed it redish brown only its not very durastic so ya. but u can actually see it. but not much has happened since last time i was here. i went to water world a few times ...and it was so freezing. lol but eh nothen new or important. so bye~ 
        well I'm very tired. But I guess ill blog really quick. Here was my very...Exciting day? LOL maybe not so exciting but ya okay so last night my friend slept over and ya so we woke up at like 11ish and then we ate, and stuff! we watched a lil TV and got bored so we decided to go run, lift and then swim LOL so we did! It was funny cuz I kept getting water up my nose and some stupid fat kid jumped on my head. LOL but then we came back to my house and showered and got ready (well I did she didn't)! And then my mom came and got me and she went home and I went to babysat. Unfortunately this time there was only three kids but ohwell I needed money. Then my mom and I went to visit my grandma:) and we stayed there for awhile then we came home and did nothen. LOL but I'm excited cuz i get my hair done again only hopefully this time it doesnt look like crap! lol but im so so so so tired so nighty night~    
       well today was boring once again ya boring. well i was supposto to go the movies then i decided to hang out with rhi instead since there wasnt much out and i didnt really have a ride anyways. but we went to barnes and noble for a while i know what losers huh! but it was actually fun! :D we sat and read magazines. like every single one. lol but then we walked to inta and it was yummy as usual. then we came to my house well my moms and just sorta hung out and talked on the phone.  but now were gettin ready to lay down and getting ready for bed. but we always say were so tired and exhusted but then we start talkin and hours pass. its so awesome cuz we always talk about everything. i love her so much! heehee but okay im gonna go brush my teethy kk~ bye bye  
      hey wow i havent written in like a while lol. okay maybe a few days but heehee. well not to much has happened. hmms lets see on sunday....haha i dont even remember. wait wait i do....i watched this show called the days or something its really good. then me and my aunt went and got a pedicure and ya thats about it. on monday, i was at home (my ninas house) and i cleaned. and went to play volleyball with my friends.(victoria and megan and veronica) ya it was fun. but i fell really hard when i was diving for the ball and i didnt have my knee pads on so my knees got all scraped up and it really hurts lol.  but i still scored lol :-D and then i went home and took a shower got ready and went to the movies. lol wat a loser huh who goes to the movies on a monday. jk! but i saw the village! and by the way it sucked. we left half way through. oh and we ate at johnny corinos. ??? its was good. lol food is always good. :) but hmms then i got in trouble that night cuz i didnt get home till 1130 ish maybe 1145 lol but i didnt have my house keys so i had to ring the door bell and my nina was sleepin so she kinda got mad.  but ya then on tuesday i was suppost to go to the volleyball but i didnt cuz i was to tired and my alarm didnt go off anyways  but i guess volleyballs canceled  but lets see wat else. then i was starving so i went to taco bell and it was delicous as usual ...yummy the best place in the world. but ya that day was pretty boring too. then wednesday hmms wat did i do. wait today is wednesday. wow but unfortunately, my uncles is sick so i took care of him today and cleaned the entire house for my nina! so she didnt have to when she got home how nice huh! and then i cleaned out my closet snf i got rid of so much crap well clothes but i got a whole bunch more so it doesnt matter.  So im moving back home. ya i was kinda bummed but oh well. im kinda gettin sick of stayin at my moms house already!  ya know wat i talk about nothing a lot and start to blab so im gonna go ....eat lol! ha bye~ 
       hey guys. okay well i had a pretty fun and interesting day! first omg it was so hot outside so my friend and i decided to walk to dairy queen on Garland ya kno. ya shes lives on a 112th and washington and i live on 102nd and washington boy was that a long walk. and it was so funny man it was hot out so i had a skirt and tank top on. so i was walking and like 30 guys were like whistling. eww it was so nasty cuz most of em were like 40!!!haha ya gross. but then we finally made it to kawanis pool just to see some people cuz my friend works there ya and then we walked all the way back to her house, then we went to westy mall. Ya they had some pretty cute stuff. then we went to eat at wendys, then we went to the movies. it was pretty fun; rhis  friend  and his friend went. lol and at first it was kinda boring cuz those guys were dumb then it was like 8:15 and we still had like 45 minutes till it started so we went into the putting edge thing (the glow in the dark putt putt)ya its pretty weird. so then we saw white castle. it was halarious. but i kept thinkin of jason like the who time so ya i was kinda depressed:( but man i miss him so much. i just cant help it! but then i came home and here i am. lol. but now i think im gonna check my email then go to bed. i dont know why im so tired lately but im wiped! bye! muah!  
       gawd, times are hard right now. Just about as tough as they could possibly be. And if there was only one time i really needed jason, it would be now. I mean not only cuz of what happened lately but just because he was one of the people closed to me that i could actually talk to. and now thats not even an option. today, my dad came home was being stupid and usually i just call jason but i really couldnt. :( then my mom came home and they started to fight again. but now im sitting here with nothing to do? so i thought id blog again. But ya whats kinda makin me mad is that jason isnt even talkin to me and he keeps playin with this msn crap so everytime he signs on this box thing pops up and has a little broken heart thing . uhgg lol <>      
       hey guys this is gonna be a pretty boring blog. i didnt do anything today. i sat around, ate, cleaned and talked all day long. pretty boring huh! ya well i dont really have anything to do so? But this weekend should be good!!! yay im excited. finally have some fun. lol. but guess what i shall be leavin soon!!!  kinda for vacation i guess u could call it. like the 20th were leavin to new mexico for like a week and then the day we come back i leave again with my friend RHI!!!!! shes awesome. were like bestest friends. but neways ya were goin to glennwood springs. its pretty fun out there.  omg theres some hott guys! whoa. lol last year i met this one kid. he was so hott. maybe ill get to see him again :) lol but okay im done i just thought id write.   
      Tonight was the worst night of my entire life. OMG I hate my life it totally sucks so bad. And I messed it up even more. Jason and I had been arguing for a while now and things were getting rough and so frustrating. I've cried my eyes out, screamed my head off, sat here and thought about whats important and what's not. And maybe me and Jason weren't meant to be ya know maybe things just didn't work out the way I planned. And I'm so sad and upset right now. My face burns from crying and my nails are bitten down to the skin, I feel as if I just got pushed down and kicked in the stomach a thousand times. :( I feel like crap that's a good way to put it I guess. I mean I love Jason so much and we had all we needed. It was so awesome; I loved him, he loved me, we loved each other. He was my best friend. He is my best friend. And right now I regret breaking up with him, maybe it will help us both in the end? I hope....I pray!?  I mean I lost everything I cared about everything I loved. I gave up on what little we had left. I didn't know what to do. I was scared. I was lost. I was so confused. And the worst part of it is I don't think he even trusted me when I told him I loved him. I mean it truly hurt me....So bad...So deep. It feels like the world just stopped or life just ended. I mean it sounds stupid I just truly genuinely love him. But I'm gonna try sleeping again I doubt I can but I'm gonna try. 
       okay, this is my first time doing one of these things so...im going to try to keep up with it.   today im doing absolutely nothing exciting.  I woke up at like 11 i guess or around then just messed around. but im so bored right now i think ill go eat...again. hehe but ya ok. bye 
						   The lack of action to meet the needs of others is sometimes astounding. We play off acting responsibly as something that  can’t  be done because of our lack of ability. When it comes to serving others, we often ask the question, “should I?” I think a better question is “can I?” If the answer to the latter is “yes,” then action  must  be taken. I think this is the general idea of Bono’s  urlLink commencement address  to the 2004 graduating class of the University of Pennsylvania entitled “Because We Can, We Must.”   urlLink What  can  you do about the situation in Africa?   urlLink What  can  you do about poverty in America?   urlLink What  can  you do about politics?  What  can  you do about anything?    
						   The lack of action to meet the needs of others is sometimes astounding.  We play off acting responsibly as something that  can’t  be done because of our lack of ability. When it comes to serving others, we often ask the question, “should I?” I think a better questions is “can I?”  If the answer to the latter is “yes,” then action must (and “should”) be taken.  I think this is the general idea of Bono’s  urlLink commencement address  to the 2004 graduating class of the University of Pennsylvania entitled “Because We Can, We Must.”   urlLink What can you do about the situation in Africa?   urlLink What can you do about poverty in America? What can you do about politics?  What can you do about anything?    
						   One day this summer, I was driving to pick up my daughter from day camp. On any given day, you can find the radio dial in my truck set to listen to  urlLink WUNC , my source for  urlLink NPR ,  urlLink Car Talk ,  urlLink Prairie Home Companion , and  urlLink Back Porch Music . This day was different. Having become bored with the news that Republicans and Democrats cannot get along, I switched the station to the Triangle’s " urlLink Hit Music Channel ." I found that the cure to boredom is inspiration.  The song that rocked me back to my teenage days was “Meant to Live” by  urlLink Switchfoot . The next day a friend gave me a copy of their CD, “ urlLink The Beautiful Letdown ,” and I have been inspired ever since. (My daughter has even enjoyed some head-bangin’ to these tunes and, like her dad, she likes it loud!)  Beyond their stimulating rock and roll music, their lyrics are deep and insightful giving (at least me) a glimpse of a postmodern perspective.   We want more than this world’s got to offer. We want more than the wars of our fathers.   Critics of the first postmodern generation, Gen X, label us as the “me” generation. By this they mean that we are self-centered and only interested in getting more and more and more for ourselves. And one might see that message in these lines. I do not. The desire for “more” is qualitative, not quantitative. We want a deeper life. We want life that has more meaning. We want something better for the world than buildings that crumble, companies that are unjust, and institutions that corrupt. What’s “more?” One answer could be community. Community that is strong, just, and incorruptible.  What’s “more?” You tell me.  
						   The basic premise of a course I took on Christian ethics in divinity school was “Ethics is the Essence of Christianity.” Without giving you even the slightest glimpse of the nature and direction of this class, I must say that this statement is a radical one.  On the most basic and foundational level, Christianity is about what we do, our ethics.**  This stands in contrast to the position that espouses Christianity is (only?) about one’s system of beliefs.  What we as Christians believe is vitally important to how we describe ourselves or how we invite others to be a part of our faith communities.  Furthermore, it might determine what is unique about us. However, what often happens concerning our beliefs is that they are used to divide us from others.  This is neither a good description of who we are, nor is it inviting to others who may be seeking some kind of faith community.  The question, then, becomes: “What is unique about Christianity?”  A wide range of responses are the result.  What if it were easy to complete this sentence:  “All Christians…”?  I do not suppose finishing this sentence is an easy task. But, I do suggest that a good place to look would be Jesus’ words in Matthew 25:34-36.  Maybe then we could finish the sentence.  All Christians…feed people who are hungry. All Christians…give a drink to the thirsty. All Christians…welcome strangers. All Christians…clothe the naked, take care of the sick, and visit those in prison.  This describes Christianity as driven more by ethics than beliefs.  It strikes me as ironic that even as Christians are dividing themselves based on beliefs, Jesus divides based on ethics.  Just what did those sheep believe that made them different from the goats?  ------  **I prefer a simple definition of “ethics” to mean one’s actions, values, morals, politics, etc., rather than another term for what one believes or what doctrines are held.  
       Like most of the sayings that you can recall in your head, you don't know where they came from, they are just there. For example..."Don't look a gift horse in the mouth" or "a watched pot never boils", but one that popped back in my mind today as I headed in from the spot where I park my car at work was; "Find a penny, pick it up, and the rest of the day you will have good luck."  I would suppose that this is one of those sayings that has been around for quite some time in the big scheme of things. I say that because it involves a penny...who would think today about a penny being the harbinger of "luck." Now days, for the saying to mean much it would probably have to say something like; "Find a $1.00, pick it up, and the rest of the day you will have...a dollar in your pocket." Now, I'm not against bending down to pick up a piece of money I find lying around, but chances are, if it is a penny, I'm the one that threw it down in the first place. I am well known in my little circle of one of tossing pennies haphazardly about to spread as much luck for others as I can.  Pennys have become about as useful in our monetary system as the proverbial "screen door on a submarine" or any other more colorful euphemisms you can think of. Try using a penny (or several of them) to pay for something today. Unless you put six of them together, buying a piece of gum is out. Forget about finding a "gumball machine" to take your pennies also. And that pretty much limits your commodities available with less than 10 cents worth of pennies. Watch the expression on the clerks face if you try to count out more than 10 to 20 cents worth of pennies to them.  Now before any of you die-hard penny slot players remind me about the hours of joy you can have sitting in front of a one-armed bandit dropping in your pennies, just remember, I don't care.  Our government can argue legislation to give and take away just about anything in our society, but I would suspect the debate to do away with the penny would be one for the ages. But how much does it cost to administer the infrastructure to accommodate the penny? Couldn't that money be used instead to fund the NEA so they can give money to an "artist" who paints with poop?  Back to my original thought, of why should it be lucky to pick up a penny. It hasn't done much for me in my pocket when it was there to start with, so bending to pick it up and put one back in my pocket wouldn't carry much mystical powers of the all-powerful luck I think. Now a dime, that's a whooole different story.  
        "Too Insure Prompt Service", at least that's what I thought "tipping" always meant. But the mystical "tip" is something that has taken on a life of its own. Now I'm all for rewarding effort in any arena, but a tip should be just that, "a reward". Animal trainers rarely "reward" their subject for sitting and playing dead rather than fetching the stick,  Crimestoppers  is not going to pay you a "reward" for giving them a tip that doesn't pan out, and unless you're a Canadian Ice Dancing team, you are not going to be "rewarded" with top marks at the Olympics for stumbling and falling down during your performance.      So why is it that merely placing an order in a restaurant requires me to "reward" the employee that brings that order to me? Am I not paying fair-market value for that order to start with? In any other sales environment, I am paying the proportionate amount of overhead to cover items such as salary for the particular item that I purchase. Now I fully expect that I may be inundated with responses from waitpersons telling me how hard they work for very little pay...granted, being paid less than minimum wage for serving food should not be allowed. But we have taken the reward system of tipping and bastardized it to the point where I am vilified for not laying down at least a couple of dollars on the table after my meal, regardless of the level of service I received.      As the customer, I should not be required to directly fund an employee's salary. That is why there is such a thing as overhead, which is figured in the actual price I pay. I should be free to offer a gratuity of my own choosing. A  gratuity  is a small amount of money given for services rendered. But services rendered requires you to go over and above simply taking my order and managing not to spill it on me when you bring it to me from the kitchen.      But let's step aside for a moment...why is there a waiting list for top wait jobs in many restaurants, clubs, casino's, etc.? Because a "good" waitperson can make a KILLING! It's not hard to do...be attentive, anticipate needs, and simply come back around every once in a while and ask; " can I get you anything else ?" Being attentive means noticing that when you brought my food I didn't have anything to eat it with besides the utensils I was born with. Being attentive is not even bothering to check if I need more tea...assume that I do; I will tell you if I don't want any more. Anticipate the needs, like bringing ketchup when I order something with fries (or whatever condiment is appropriate wherever you are [which should be ketchup regardless, but that's a whole other blog]), or if I ask for extra lemon in my tea when I first place my order that I might expect some more when and if you come to fill my glass up again.      Being a waitperson is not hard...and I don't mean it's not hard work, obviously it is...but just having common sense and thinking of how you would like to be waited on if the roles were reversed should go a long way in letting you know how the job should be done.      I have gone as far as leaving a 2-cent tip before, rather than nothing at all, just so the waitperson gets the message. I've gone to the manager to give them my tip because they were the one that happened to smile as they walked past my table, not bothering to stop themselves if they noticed something was amiss...thinking maybe it would give them a hint about their establishment's service. I've left very generous tips as much as 30-40% at times when I received exceptional service, and I've obviously never gone back to a restaurant where the lack of service made that decision for me.      Tipping should be plain and simple, as a waitperson, bust your tail as many do, and you will have money falling out of your pockets at the end of the night...or continue to be a mediocre or failing waitperson and you will have only your own complaints to line your pockets with.      But then again, that's just my 4 cents worth.   
      Here i am in California, and again on the Internet.  I think i should go out, but oh well.  Money needs to be made.   I was hoping to have my  urlLink California Hotels  website up by the time I got here, but that didnt happen due to Kirat hurting her wrist.   Anyways, ill probably give an update of my travels later. 
      I just put up a travel page on antelopetravel.com  The site used to be run by a travel agency named  urlLink Antelope Travel .  It seems that the agency merged with another, so they no longer needed to keep this domain name.  Hopefully there's still some traffic going to the domain name that I can capitalize on.  
      I'm always thinking about the future, about what im going to do next.  Sometimes my ideas are pretty shitty, but right now my previous ideas seem to have gone pretty well.   Yesterday I spent $105 on Google Adwords.  439 Click-throughs, I made about $100 in opti-fees.  So my advertising plan is going pretty much on track for now.  My opti-fees are paying for my advertising, and the actual commissions are my profits.  For yesterday that would be about $340US.  Not bad for a guy who did nothing most of the day, I went paintballing, and the rest of the day I did other things which had nothing to do with work.  The future is looking bright.   My  urlLink Montreal Hotels  website has been doing fairly well recently, and i havent even been advertising it, hopefully it will continue, and become something like my  urlLink Calgary Hotels  website, a consistent earner.   I got a domain name apprasial done today for  urlLink Monterey HQ , Sedo.com said the domain was worth $1200US.  But I dont think that appraisal takes into account all the links on the net to the website, including one on Yahoo.  I'm going to keep my website price up at $2500, considering those links and the website with its content.   I'm going to  urlLink Harrison Hot Springs  in the morning, see how business is there.  I spent more than 5 years living there, but have rarely been there in the last year and half.  Should be interesting.  
      I dont know what it is but i am very  BORED  maybe i need to go away somewhere.  Which i will be doing in two weeks anyways, to California.  Maybe i should visit  urlLink Monterey  while im down there.  I still have to book my flight, but im going for sure.   Today was a boring day, i didnt really do much.  Checked my adwords stats quite a few times though.  Im spending more on Adwords than im receiving through opti-fees, which wasnt the plan.  So tomorrow im going to cut down a bit on my adwords CPC and see how that works.  I need to make it balance out, and then keep it like that.  I cant really complain though, i think i still made more than $300 today after paying the ad expenses.  I'm not just sitting back though.  I might be getting someone to make unique content for me, so i can develop CanadianTourist.com.  I think it will cost me somewhere in the $2500 range to get it up, but the way im seeing it right now, the site will have some 500 pages of unique content, if i link my hotel sites to it, i could easily make that $2500 back in a few months and then it will be all profit.   The site will sort of be like my  urlLink Vancouver Tourist  site, but different.   I have  urlLink Monterey HQ  up for sale.  I'm hoping it sells, i dont know if there's much use of the site.  It really isnt performing that well for me yet.  I need it to have a Google Pagerank.   I have websites in  urlLink Sudbury ,  urlLink Barrie ,  urlLink Kitchener ,  urlLink Oshawa ,  urlLink Guelph  and  urlLink Windsor Ontario  that arent doing anything yet.  Lets hope they start soon.  
      I dont know if anyone reads this blog. But i dont really care, because I know the search engine bots are going through and spidering my blog on a daily basis. They are picking up the link placement to my sites ( urlLink Hyatt Regency Bellevue  is a nice hotel) and spidering them as well. I dont know if its working at all yet, but i might as well as try for a while, and see how it goes.  Out of all the hotels in Vancouver, the  urlLink Westin Bayshore Hotel  probably has the nicest location. Its not right in the busy are of downtown, but its also not too far. The proximity to Stanley Park is pretty damn good too.  I didnt win that gamebros.com domain name the other day, it went for $454US! Way beyond my budget. I guess the people bidding on it valued it more than me. So i guess ill stick to Hotels for now. Probably better that i do that since i'm experienced in the hotel industry, after working at the Executive Hotel in  urlLink Harrison Hot Springs  for 5 years.  I guess thats all for today in terms of my gratuitous link placement, ill be back tomorrow with more :D  P.S. Remember to visit my  urlLink Winnipeg Hotels  website. 
      The last three days have been very good.  Its 3:45 on the Friday, but since Wednesday morning, ive made about $1400CAD.  So far this month im on pace to hit over $9000 by the end of the month.  But you know what? I've decided thats not good enough.   I've decided once again to increase my Adwords budget, and by the time i add all the keywords for all the different cities, i should be paying about $100US a day for clicks.  Just over 400 clicks a day to my websites.  I'm hoping at least 5% of those visitors book, making 20 reservations, more than $50US back in opti-fees and more than $150US in commissions.  Leaving me with more than $100US additional profit each day.   Now i just need to figure out a way of fitting $2500 - $3000US each month on a credit card.  I might need to make credit balances on the card so that the transactions go through.   Well this is just a plan for now, who knows if it will work, ill try it out for the next week or so.  If my bookings keep rising, ill know something is working.  I need to fix a few of my sites up as well, make them more user friendly.  I just added my  urlLink Vancouver Hotels ,  urlLink Banff Hotels ,  urlLink Calgary Hotels  and  urlLink Edmonton Hotels  websites on my Google Adwords campaign.  There are so many damn keywords for each of those sites.  
      I thought yesterday was just a blip, and that my websites would be normal today, somewhere in the $150 to $200 range.  But again i was way above average at about $450 today on 33 reservations.   I really noticed my PPC ads working well for me today.  At least 10-12 of the reservations I received were directly conversions from the ads.  I've decided to expand the advertising, increasing my daily budget on Google Adwords to $30/day.  With a maximum CPC of 30 cents.  If i have another day like today, tomorrow, i think ill have to increase the daily budget again.    I received a few reservations today from my  urlLink Barrie Hotels  website, which is nice, finally making some of the sites i did in June are paying off for me.  Hopefully some of the others will be producing soon as well.   Someone made eight reservations in Mt. Vernon Washington today.  I'm guessing those reservations went through my  urlLink Bellingham Hotels  website.   For some reason the  urlLink Executive Hotel Harrison Hot Springs  website has been dropping for the keyword 'harrison hot springs' on Google for the past year.  We used an SEO company, that didnt work, once we changed our website early this year its been worse.  Hopefully it will pick up soon.  
      Well it is the middle of the summer right now, so I should be expecting my best days for hotel reservations to be taking place right now.  Yesterday I made the most money from my websites than any other day so far.  Close to $600 in one day.  Not bad for sitting on my ass doing practically nothing.   I like the idea of making money and not doing very much.  Who doesnt like that idea?  But sometimes i feel lazy and want to do more.  If i actually worked hard at this, i could easily be making much more money.  Thats why im accumulating so many damn domain names, I have these great ideas to do so much more, but it usually doesnt go anywhere.  I've back ordered Gamebros.com through pool.com.  Its up for auction right now, and ive bid $80US for it.  If i get it, i think that will be my foot into the video game affiliate business door.   Yesterday I put  urlLink Monterey HQ  up for sale on Sedo.com as a developed website.  I really need Google to give it a page rank soon though, otherwise it wont sell.  I'm asking for $2500US which may be a little excessive.  But then again the people who used to run it might not think so.  Lets see how that goes.  Yesterday I showed someone this blog, I asked them not to laugh.  They actually thought it was good.  Which doesnt really make sense to me.  
      When I started affiliate marketing in the summer of 2001, I first made a four seasons hotels website.  The aim of the website was to make it look like the actual four seasons website, with their logo etc.  The domain name was even four-seasons-hotels.com  I linked hotel reservations for the site through travelnow.com.  Because the website didnt have any traffic, I paid for clicks through goto.com which is now overture.com.   A week after i had the site up i paid about $200 for clicks and had about $1000 in commissions.  It was a great success, especially for my first try at it.  Unfortunately the success didnt last long, I got a notice from travelnow.com that Four Seasons sent them a letter from their lawyers to stop the reservations from my site.   Whats the point of telling you this? Well rich people are great, they spend lots of money on things.  There werent actually that many reservations through that four seasons website i made, but each one was a big commission.  5% of a $1000 reservation is $50.  Compared to some of the measly 5% of $69 i get ($3.45 commission), those four seasons commissions were GREAT.   Today someone booked the  urlLink Fairmont Banff Springs Hotel  for 3 nights at $381.97US per night.  My commission on the booking was over $100US.  I have to say that I was quite happy receiving the email confirming the booking.   My websites sell rooms for some other luxury hotels including the  urlLink Four Seasons Toronto , the  urlLink Pan Pacific Hotel Vancouver  and the  urlLink Ritz Carlton Montreal .  Lets hope some more Rich people visit my websites and book. 
      Today i decided that its time to start spending some money advertising my websites.  I'm doing it on a trial basis, ive chosen search keywords for some of my sites, and will be monitoring how that goes.  I deposited $50 with Overture and have put a $5 per day limit on advertising with Google.  I'll be monitoring the results everyday to see how it goes.   Just now I received an email from Google, tell me that one of the terms ive submitted for advertising has been rejected.  ' urlLink Holiday Inn Express Bellingham ' was rejected because:   "We have disapproved the trademark term "Holiday Inn" and/or variations of this keyword in your Google AdWords campaign."     Some of the hotel chains have been fairly aggressive with their internet marketing, trying to prevent people like me from taking a share of the business through our websites.  The group that runs the Holiday Inns arent so bad though, they sent me an email a few weeks ago asking me to join their very own affiliate program.  With them paying as much as 7% for a reservation.  Less than they would pay to a travel agent, but still a pretty good commission for me.  I havent taken them up on the offer yet.  
      When you surf the internet you surely see websites which have no real purpose and they have sponsored listings all over them.  Alot of them are expired domain names or domain names which have good names and receive significant traffic.  The website owners receive income from people visiting the websites and clicking on the listings.   I just signed up with Sedo.com's parked domain name service.  I have a few expired domain names, one of them  urlLink reston-va.com  im putting up on there service, lets see how that goes.   I had my first $5k month in July,  i'm trying to match that in August.  Hopefully by september ill have sites like  urlLink Hotels Reservations Canada  and  urlLink California Hotels  going and i can keep the income flowing in.  
      I've been wondering about blogging for some time.  I dont know why people like posting random things on blogs, i really dont see the purpose.  But I thought i would try it out for a while and see how it goes.   I've been making websites for some time.  The websites are not for others, but for myself, i make money mainly through affiliate programs, hotel affiliate programs to be more precise. As well as through Google Adsense.   Right now I probably have somewhere in the range of 60 websites, and I make a decent income from them.  If anyone reading this wants to make a hotel reservation in  urlLink Toronto ,  urlLink Vancouver  or Perhaps  urlLink Seattle , I have websites which can help you with that.    One of my more successful websites is for  urlLink Calgary Hotels .   I've been looking at doing other types of affiliate programs recently, but havent had the chance yet to do that.  There are so many affiliate programs out there, that its hard to figure out which one would be the best to do.   I've been researching different affiliate programs recently in order to diversify myself a bit.  Hopefully ill find something soon that will be a money maker.
      its 12am, 24th of august 2004... was just testing this new pc i assembled. tomorrow i have to say bye-bye to this one. i came across mulawin's blogspot. i remembered che who has a blogspot too. too bad i don't know her url. wanna have a sneek peek on what she post in her own lil' space on this super addictive world wide web... hehe... particulary friendster.  oh i wish i'm not HOME ALONE. it's super duper quiet here at home. all i hear is raindrop...este the sound of my keyboard. was listening to paolo santos' mp3s a while ago but got tired of his mellow sounds. it's tuesday tomorrow. i wish it's friday everyday. i miss my bed in cavite. i really miss my family during weekdays. i miss papa and his toolbox. i miss mama and her big mouth (hehe), i miss my younger sisters and their "kakulitan". mau was asking me to get her a bike pala. i went to a bicycle store already few hours ago. asked few questions blah blah blah. i'd probably get one on friday night. hopefully it will fit in inside my car!! hehe..what else do i miss? hmmm... i miss ate and her baby. i haven't seen the baby awake though. she's getting bigger everyday. she drinks lots of milk. am soo happy and soo excited to see her grow. i'll be her second momma...hehe..  oh tons of work again tomorrow! there's soo many deadlines and am getting soo damn tired... everything is priority. everything is rush. and the phone never stop ringing. will there be an end? i hope so......but for sure there will be none.  oh well...time to stop for now.         
      "Knew the signs Wasn't right I was stupid for a while Swept away by you And now I feel like a fool And now I'm, so confused, My heart's bruised Was I ever loved by you?  Out of reach, so far I never had your heart Out of reach, Couldn't see We were never Meant to be  Catch myself From despair I could drown If I stay here Keeping busy everyday I know I will be OK"  wow there is so much going on in my head right now, so many things to think about. after hearing that song...hmm kainis. why does myla keep playing that song?  well maybe there's something about the song that she likes..just like me.  it reminds me of something. that was a couple of years ago. now am 25. yup 25 years old. am done with the first quarter of my life.. at 25, single but happy with everything. Been inlove once, but it just didn't work out. Too bad.   But I wish that one day i’ll meet someone.  The one who’s worth breaking all the rules, someone worth keeping, the one that I’d be holding for so long, and if possible, forever. (that would be great) So why rush things? After all, I’m just 25... But what if i meant to be alone? I guess that's life...=)  "Out of reach, So far You never gave your heart In my reach, I can see There's a life out there For me" 
      ahihihihi :)  i would like to congratulate my college of commerce mates for winning the 2004 USC CHEER LEADING COMPETITON....wheeeeeeeee! you did great out there guys....and you all deserved it well....  the 2004 USC INTRAMURALS has just opened today and we started out with a BOOM! and that shows GOOD LUCK ahead of us...  though i haven't watched the other games.... i'm sure they did great today!  GOOD LUCK sa inyong lahat guys...kahit ala ako dun para mag-cheer sa inyo, alam kong makakaya n'yong talunin ang mga kalaban natin...malaks ata team natin this year....ahihihihi :)  never lose FAITH and CONFIDENCE within yourselves...  let's show to them who the best team is...and that's no other else than "US!"  GO COMMERCE! GO! GO!  GO COMMERCE! GO! 
      it's 2:26 am now and i'm still awake...i don't know why?! i know i have to wake up early later for school because i have to attend the cheer dance competition and the volleyball competition...it's our intramurals already...my friends wanted me to come...and i owe them...i need to support them...they need me-they need us!  Go USC college of commorse...i know that we can do it...let's show to them, who is the best...  *yawns*  i guess i have to sleep now...but i still can't shut my eyes...though i keep on yawning that is...  what's wrong with me?! maybe because i'm thinking too much of my honey...  i just finished talking to him through e-mail...he told me he's going to sleep already...  shish! what's with my honey that keeps me holding on to this long distance relationship of ours?! is this what they call LOVE?! well then, love it is...  i still have to wait for 2 d*mn years before he comes home here in the philippines...and by then he could visit me...2 years ladies and gentlemen...2 nerve recking years as what he calls it!!!!!!  i have to be very patient and understanding than i have ever been in my entire life...if i want our relationship to last then i have to do so...  i love my honey so much, that's why i'm doing this for him-for me-for us...  *yawns*  it's 2:33am already...and i really have to sleep...i'll try sleeping now...it's pretty much late for me to be awake...hope i could get a good night rest...  2:37 and i'm logging off now...  *yawns*  what a day... 
      it's our intrams already....and i'm so happy kasi makakapahinga na me kahit sa isang week lang....i still have to go to school though to have my attendance sheet signed....  and now, meron na me blog....  ey, you send me your comments nga pala to all of my post....  tell me if ok lang ba blog ko....thanks :) 
      Last night was one of the most dreadful nights in my life (actually last early morning cuz it happened during the wee hours of the night of aug. 24). This may sound pathetic or something to some (or most?!) of you guys around here, but to me it was something big and it's something that I wanna share :)  I know my baby might kill me coz of this but I really wanna share this. Anyways, my boyfriend and I had the most tiring, audacious, mind-wrecking, tear-jerking (for my part that is..haha!) and scariest fight we've ever had since we've been together. It started with just one petty misunderstanding that led to me telling him that I wanna cool off (or give some time alone).. Whoa! Yeah, whoa for me! I never expected that would come from my own mouth. It was the most tactless thing to say especially that it was something that I really didn't wanna do but I said it anyways. Well, it was also because I got so scared that he would get tired of our fights and suddenly leave me (yeah, yeah, sorta crazy but me being the paranoid type, that'll be the case then..in my mind). Anyways, he didn't wanna agree on my "bright" idea coz he didn't wanna risk our relationship with just one petty fight. It was really sweet, you know, how he didn't wanna let go and telling me how important I am to him. And so with all the talking and my crying, (that lasted till almost 5am!!) I finally got into my rational side and realized that I'm such a stupid girl to actually let go of this guy. We made so many promises already to each other and one of those is to never leave each other's side especially when we most needed each other and here I am leaving him when he most needed me.   To cut the story short, we both said our I love you's and the I'm Sorry's and we went to sleep with puffy eyes and red noses but with a happy smile and a peaceful thought coz we both know that no one will ever leave anyone..ever.. even if one tries to, the other won't bulge and instead put some sense to one's mind :)
      Woohoo! Lasalle won! Finally! Despite my not being able to watch it live with my bestfriend (for the 1st time! argh!), I guess it's ayt as long as they won over Ateneo and didn't stumbled down during the last few minutes. It would've been better if we were able to watch it live tho but as usual it's not really easy to get tickets especially if we're talking about the Ateneo vs. Lasalle game.   So, as I watch the game at home, I was shouting and jumping (my mom making me stop coz the neighbors might wonder what's going on in here.. haha!) when we led Ateneo a shocking 31 points at the end of the first half. I was also stunned by the way our team played and how the Ateneans stumbled down. It was unlikely of them to be like that. But as the 3rd quarter started, I kinda knew they'd be able to catch up.. and so they did.. and so I tried not to watch the game for a few minutes and instead go to the kitchen and fix my Food for the Gods (incase you're interested, I accept orders.. hehe.. talk about advertising my product! haha!). I was scared to see our team lose again after leading that long and that big (remember the first game?). But I guess our players are more confident now that they can do it and so at the end we won :) Animo Lasalle! Congrats to the team and to us! Finally we got a chance! And so me and my bestfriend got anxious again in watching game LIVE.. haha!
      My mother is the epitimy of evil. She is the stupidest, most horrendus human to walk the earth. I cant have a friend over today, and the reason? Hmmm...oh yeah! There ISNT ONE! You know, I really hate people who get along with their parents. They need to burn.  Blowing off some steam, so laters.  Angry yells and whips, RavingBITCH 
      Hello again. Its me. NO, its YOUR MOTHER. No its me. Oh shut up, what do you know, I'm sitting in my fluffy pink robe that says "Princess" from 6th grade and I am NOT A HAPPY CAMPER. SO FUCK YOU. I mean, er, sorry Mr. Post Administrator, I dont USUALLY swear...  Anyways! So school is starting in like a week, and I havent gone shopping yet. Its cuz my friend over here (See the mini blonde one? Yep, thats her!) has been SO BLOODY SLOW that she still hasnt gone shopping with me!  Well, this year is totally gonna rock. I mean, I've changed so much over the summer, I got my hair cut cropped really short to my chin, then it grew to my neck, so I'm getting it cut again. And I got slightly tanner, but thats not really it. I've really started taking a huge shine to singers/songwriters Tori Amos and Ani Difranco, and they're painful, witty lyrics have rocked. I'm not goth anymore, just funky. And ever since I got a pretty big part in the camp play, I feel really refreshed - its good to know  someone  thinks  I'm talented! Also, I have my two bestest friends to make my probably-last-year with them frocking brilliant! A+N, My fave girliepals, this year is gonna rock! And I got taller. No, I do not know how its possible...I am now 5'6 and a half, ladies and gents! Whoo-hoo! I'm officially six inches taller than Anna! Yaaaaay!  But I'm also really mad, cuz at camp, I developed a crush on the most perfect guy possible. He's amazingly talented, has the coolest hair (even though its brown) and is like 5'9 or whatever, just taller than me, which is like the perfect height ! *sighs* but now he's gone...  Anyway, I've made a vow to my friends that I'm going to be totally boy free the first month of school, its a little bet we have going. Anyway, since this is almost impossible for me, who has a crush on about 10 different people (Orlando WILL be mine, you snickering infidels...) it should be pretty damn interesting. I dont want to date anyone this year, I've decided, because my boyfriends experiences (I've had four) have never been...well...great. And the guys at my school?   *eerie silence*   Moving on, I gotta skedadle! Brekkie time, so leave me your comments and I'll eat them.  x's n o's, RavingBitch 
       Hello earthlings! Its your GOD! No no, its not a bird or a plane or even a very attractive bimbo...no! Its your loud-mouthed pal from one of the world's whitest, bitchiest towns! Okay, so now that you're here, this is the standard warning...        I tend to be very upfront about issues I care about, so dont you even try to mess with me, I'll squash you like a bug. Just ask Anna or Neelima, lol guys!    Swearing. If your a devout christian, you may as well leave because you're pretty much going to find everything on my blog offensive...tata real smooth!    Actually, if you're a devout christian, I already dont like you.     Ok, well thats it, so, until five from now...         Kisses,    RavingBitch  
         **akasha finally risen from her stiffness, standing on her feet, she then raises both hands to the sky**  akasha: "Ahh yess, i am free finally after all this time of slumbering, i am now free.. .free at last-free at last thank the one above, i am free at last!!...Oops!!..wrong line" ,** she slowly turns around & look to Enkil who was still seated on his throne**  akasha: "such a stiff man you really are my king?.....i need some action in my life, for you don't have what i need anymore, but now i am the one who is going to the concert, in search of my love lestat, besides, i remember when he was in our room, he played that lovely violin to me &amp; i was so turned on that i let him drank from me....& ever since...i knew that he will be my new King"  **she then starts to laugh, &amp; then she walks up to Enkil who was still seated on his throne in utterstillness, **she reached to strike at his neck to take his vital suppy of powerful blood, but she hesitated**  akasha: "Nar!!, you're not worth my thrist anymore, my dear King, but you r a noble man, sort of"**akasha then..rips into Enkil's throat..drinking his powerful blood...she lets out a loud moan** *then after her kill....she went off in search for her victims in the so-called mortal/immortal vampire bars** **she takes flight, at the same time scanning the cities for victims and other immortals**  akasha: "AHH yes!!.......how delicious this world is...and soon....i will get rid of them all & kept the ones who will obey me, who will rule along side of my new King &amp; i"  **after visiting and burning down every single vampire bars she have seen, she headed to theconcert**  **lestat is on stage performing to a large crowd** **then someone in the crowd yelled**  goth-girl1 : "GIVE IT TO ME LESTAT.........I WANT U TO DRINK ME....DO ME" goth-girl 2: "NO....NO........DRINK ME LESTAT"  **then akasha appeared from the floor where lestat was standing......she stood besides him and said to the crowd**  akasha; "this is my love from now on..........so you all can KISS MY A$$......hahahahahaha" lestat: "what de heck!?!.........is it really you??" akasha: "yes my darling....now let's go to some place quiet......it's way too noisey here" **she then took hold of lestat and they accend into the night sky" **they arrived at a mansion**  akasha: "now my prince...the time has come to make u my King..my one and only" lestat: "umm, what ever u say my queen...i shall obey" akasha: "very well then...."  **she got into the large tub...and lestat got in.......akasha then began to kiss him and was aboutto take a drink from him"  akasha: "remember my love.....my stab is a lot more worse than yours.....i hope u can take the pain" lestat: "i know i can........give it to me!!"  **she bit him HARD on to his nipple.......drinkin in his blood....lestat lets out a yell** lestat: "OH MY GOSH!!.......THAT HURTS!!"  **akasha looks at him.......and laugh heartedly......she then reach over and kiss him with her mouthstill full of his blood....& he respond to her forbiddin kisses"**lestat is finally into akasha's grip and is now under her spell**  **after the so called love making (vampire style)....they slept...while some where jesse is takingto maharet**  jesse: "aunt maharet.......i dont understand....am i a vampire just like u?" maharet: "yes u are my child.........but ur still human.....its kind of difficult to explain but u'll get the picture" jesse: "but this cant be?...how could u be a vampire?......  **jesse walks around the room still askin herself the same question..then maharet intervine**  maharet: "jesse stop tormenting urself and get with the program......ur a part of "the family"**the sun starts to rise** maharet: "now is not the time.to speak..i have to go.the sun is coming up i dont want to get tan"  **she kisses jesse on the forehead and heads back to her chamber** **back in the mansion, lestat.is sleeping soundly in the bed with a grin on his face.then he slowlyawake as the sun hits him over the face**  lestat: "AHHH!!....but wait....im not burning up....how could this be?"  **he gets up from the bed &amp; heads outside......he was in shock to believe he's outside in theday light for the first time in over 2 hundred years..... ****then he notice there were dead bodies everywhere...he stood there looking on then akashajoin him at his side**  akasha: "drinking my blood lestat allows u to be in the light.......its kind off cool isnt it?" lestat: "i guess so......so what is up with all the dead bodies akasha"  akasha: "nothings wrong..........its part of the process......its no big deal lestat my love...we are vampires remember and besides they believe in nothing....and now they are nothing"  lestat: "what ever you say akasha.....and this is why u have risen huh."  akasha: "``sigh``.......now come lestat 4 we have un finish business to do" lestat: "what un finish business you're talking about?"akasha: "with the others...who else.....now quit stallin and lets go"  **they head up into the skies**  **meanwhile, after the sun set, maharet, marius, kharman, armand, pandora & jesse stood in alarge room over looking the family tree**  maharet: "4 years and i do mean years, i have stood here over looking our family tree, it can get a bit boring at times but its worth it to some extent, don't u think?  "marius: "....as u can see jesse this is why we must fight akasha....to protect our lives ur family if u want to call it that" pandora: "mmm hmm and among other things.......**pandora rolls her eyes**  jesse: "what about lestat....how r we going to get him back so he can be with me" armand: "i dont know ask the leader that question" maharet: "r u speaking about me armand?" kharman: "ah...4 crying out loud this is no time to fight...both of u...im 2 old 4 this" pandora: "ahh, no kidding huh" marius: "pandora......what is ur problem........" pandora: "nothing........let just do what ever maharet says shall we"  **then the doors suddenly flew open and standing there behind the thick smoke was akasha andlestat**  akasha: "ahh my children...it some how warms my blood to see u all r here.....plotting against me..the queen of all queens.....**she coughs from the smoke**... ahhh curses this darn smoke" maharet: "akasha, finally u r here....." akasha: "hold on maharet...u must address my King first...remember?"  **lestat appears from the smoke and started to cough..he then stood at akasha's side, jesselooks on with anger on her face**  jesse: "lestat..what have she done to u.....this, this woman" **akasha and lestat look at jesse**  akasha: 'the nerve of u to ask that stupid question" marius: "akasha.......u must try and change ur ways of running things at this time and age"  akasha: "aaahh u've got to be kidding me, im not here to hear u all talk crap about change... i am here to rule and to get rid of those who are destorying my long work..years ago" maharet: "the world has change since ur time akasha"  akasha: "then we shall change it back.........today humans r animals...their as worse as they come....their destruction is sickening to my stomach" marius: "thats not true" akasha: "yea what ever......morals are just mainly food 4 all i care"  **akasha looks at jesse with an evil grin on her face...jesse felt threaten**  marius: "akasha please.......dont speak like that" akasha: "shut up!!.......ur too weak marius.........now enough of this stupid discussion.... and let's get 2 the heart of the matter..hmm?!?! now join me or u all die" kharman: "i will not" armand: "i will not" marius: "i will not" pandora: "im with them...i will not" maharet: "i will not"  **akasha felt a bit sadden....but manage to recover very quickly...she looks over at lestat with a smile on her face**  akasha: "lestat......do u love me?"  lestat: "yyyeeessss" akasha: "then prove it...........kill her....that jesse girl" **he looks over at jesse**  lestat: "she means nothing to me" akasha: "what ever....its.just the same.........i'd like 4 u to kill her"  **lestat felt suddenly sad for a moment.....as he slowly walks towards jesse....maharet got upset &amp;heads towards akasha**  maharet: "don't u dare touch her" **akasha force pushes maharet towards the wall**  akasha: "u dare to challenge me old woman"**she then looks at lesat**....now lestat"  jesse: "it is ok..........aunt maharet......this is what i want.......i think" **akasha smiles at jesse** akasha: "oh how sweet...**she smiles, showing her fangs**  **lestat and jesse face each other.......she offers her neck to him**  jesse: "be gentle ok" lestat: "ur neck is not what i want jesse have u forgotten?" jesse: "oh yea......duh.....**she then offers the top part of her boobs to lestat** jesse: "ok, this time i am ready"  **lestat slowly puts his arms around jesse then slowly come to her upper boob and sank hissharp fangs into her...she lets out a moan.....lestat slowly drinks from her...his arms cradling her...ashe slowly sank her onto the floor.....then lestat stood up.....and akasha came towards him**  akasha: "now u see my children.........u see how this whole thing is done......now just remember you real family for as long as u can....or join hers"  lestat: "now.my queen.....give me my crown.....i cant wait anymore." akasha: "oh, spoken just like a true King......... **she places her hands under her skirt and took out the 'crown'**  lestat: "akasha....not that crown i meant" akasha: "ahh, very well then.......**she offers her arm to him.......he then sank his fangs into her flesh** akasha: "now u see...how well he obeys............so whats it going to be......join me or die"**lestat still drinking from her** akasha: "ok that is enough........... **she flings him off and the others came towards her...bearing their fangs**  akasha: "wait!!!........u fools......let me do some thing first.........by dissappearing" marius: "what r u talking about...we r suppose to drink u and drain u out dry" akasha: "not this time marius........**akasha then made herself into a ball and then in a flash, she vanishes**  armand: "oh great....now she's gone...and what r we left with now" lestat: "oh shut up armand........." **he goes over to jesse and offers her his bood**  **after the transformation in to the Dark Side, lestat and jesse paid david a visit**  david: "oh my..lestat.....i am surprised that you are here....but why?" lestat: "cause someone needed to see you 4 the last time my dear friend"  **jesse appeared from the dark corner of the room** jesse: "hello david"..**she smiles at him** david: "oh.....jesse".................**somewhat shaken** jesse: "well.....u've met lestat" david: "yes, yes of course" lestat: "i believe......this book belongs with you" **he gaves david back his journal** david: "oh .......thank you lestat" jesse: "so... do u want to know what its like to be a vampire?" david: "who me?....nar i am quite too old 4 that kind of thing" jesse: "ok, its your call...........i guess this is good bye then" david: "umm, i guess so" lestat: "oh dont worry david, i'll come by again.....and i know u wont turn down the offer"  **he gives david a wicked smile** **david felt fear all of a sudden, but manage to get it together** david: "i am fine with my decision....."  **lestat &amp; jesse heads out into the night..they stood over a bridge..gazing into each other's eyes.**  THE END!!!....**vampire music plays**   
        Never would I imagine being so tempted to take "him", to hold "him"...to smell "him"....Everything about him drives me onward, draws me closer to "him"...."He" is not like n e other man I've met in my life thus far......and I like the way "he" makes me feel.....That burning desire to be with "him"..... If only we were 2gether.......but sadly we are not....and all I have are the sweet, yet at the same time painful memories within me.... Still n e thing is indeed possible...once u put ur mind at it..... 
        No but seriously, what ever happen to them in truth?....where r they?...do the still exists til this day and age?.....r they indeed the care taker of the household, the well-brought up, trustworthy son to their mothers?.....the polite, well-decent boyfriend to their girlfriends?.....the loving and respectable husband?.....r they the protective father to their children?.... do they still exists? that's the question.....i believe there are a few of them....and surely i've met a few...the rest are a pile of shit (the one's that i've so far encountered with of course)   
          Some times that feeling would creep up upon you when you least expected it...Take for instance all now so..I am just minding my own bloody business, doing some work online..at the same time checking out some websites, when suddenly I felt that "feeling" from deep inside me...  I know I am human and surely that "feeling" would come and go.....I'm very use to it but at the same time..it can drive you nutts.....  So what did I do to tame that "feeling"?......  I took a bloody cold shower.. 
        So recently, my friends and I went cinema to check out the movie Alien vs Predator.....and it was good, not excellent, but good...the face off was sweet yet no one fully succeeded at the end...Both the alien and the predator were very much even....(boo!!!) I thought just maybe the predator would get a clean sweep and collect the heads of the aliens as its personal trophy collection or something like that....but instead the alien got the last laugh with an unexpected parting gift 4 the predator at the end of the movie....(hmm very interesting)     
        i am a sucker for sliver jewelery....My love for this particular metal is like "love at first sight"...   
               i need to do some shoppin b 4 the month is out...   
       2day was just like n e other day except the constant "yapping" of my dearest dad every now and then...i love him but he can be a pain sometimes (lol)..The weather is hot, well to me it is......      As for my so-called love life is currently at a stand still, probably for the best at this time though...    Well who am i kiddin!!  
        Finally--my first ever blog....u could say it's like my very own online journal......(again)...lawd knows how much I love to write and post what inner thoughts.and say what's on my mind when the time is "ripe"...  and surely I have a lot to say, but not right away!! 
      So my day, I assure you, will keep you on the edge of your seat. First, I woke up. After that, I watched tv for a while and tooled around on the computer. Around noontime, I created this blog, then later, Tom came over,and we plotted many maniacal schemes, played some video games, and started the recruitment for said schemes. We went up to Rob's for awhile and stood around talking for about a half hour. Pretty much immediately after Tom left, I got a call from the one and only Bruno. He told me he was coming over (no invitation from me) and then we went and launched one of his model rockets off...except Bruno was incompetent at launching them and forgot many supplies. After that, I came back here and am now blogging, which would appear to be a given. In conclusion, I have to go do some schoolwork, mainly finishing my chem memorization and writing down my Huck Finn connections. Oh yeah, and Bob Dylan is awesome:  "Hurricane" Pistols shots ring out in the barroom night Enter Patty Valentine from the upper hall She sees the bartender in a pool of blood Cries out "My God they killed them all" Here comes the story of the Hurricane The man the authorities came to blame For something that he never done Put him in a prison cell but one time he could-a been The champion of the world.  Three bodies lying there does Patty see And another man named Bello moving around mysteriously "I didn't do it" he says and he throws up his hands "I was only robbing the register I hope you understand I saw them leaving" he says and he stops "One of us had better call up the cops" And so Patty calls the cops And they arrive on the scene with their red lights flashing In the hot New Jersey night.  Meanwhile far away in another part of town Rubin Carter and a couple of friends are driving around Number one contender for the middleweight crown Had no idea what kinda shit was about to go down When a cop pulled him over to the side of the road Just like the time before and the time before that In Patterson that's just the way things go If you're black you might as well not shown up on the street 'Less you wanna draw the heat.  Alfred Bello had a partner and he had a rap for the corps Him and Arthur Dexter Bradley were just out prowling around He said "I saw two men running out they looked like middleweights They jumped into a white car with out-of-state plates" And Miss Patty Valentine just nodded her head Cop said "Wait a minute boys this one's not dead" So they took him to the infirmary And though this man could hardly see They told him that he could identify the guilty men.  Four in the morning and they haul Rubin in Take him to the hospital and they bring him upstairs The wounded man looks up through his one dying eye Says "Wha'd you bring him in here for ? He ain't the guy !" Yes here comes the story of the Hurricane The man the authorities came to blame For something that he never done Put in a prison cell but one time he could-a been The champion of the world.  Four months later the ghettos are in flame Rubin's in South America fighting for his name While Arthur Dexter Bradley's still in the robbery game And the cops are putting the screws to him looking for somebody to blame "Remember that murder that happened in a bar ?" "Remember you said you saw the getaway car?" "You think you'd like to play ball with the law ?" "Think it might-a been that fighter you saw running that night ?" "Don't forget that you are white".  Arthur Dexter Bradley said "I'm really not sure" Cops said "A boy like you could use a break We got you for the motel job and we're talking to your friend Bello Now you don't wanta have to go back to jail be a nice fellow You'll be doing society a favor That sonofabitch is brave and getting braver We want to put his ass in stir We want to pin this triple murder on him He ain't no Gentleman Jim".  Rubin could take a man out with just one punch But he never did like to talk about it all that much It's my work he'd say and I do it for pay And when it's over I'd just as soon go on my way Up to some paradise Where the trout streams flow and the air is nice And ride a horse along a trail But then they took him to the jailhouse Where they try to turn a man into a mouse.  All of Rubin's cards were marked in advance The trial was a pig-circus he never had a chance The judge made Rubin's witnesses drunkards from the slums To the white folks who watched he was a revolutionary bum And to the black folks he was just a crazy nigger No one doubted that he pulled the trigger And though they could not produce the gun The DA said he was the one who did the deed And the all-white jury agreed.  Rubin Carter was falsely tried The crime was murder 'one' guess who testified Bello and Bradley and they both baldly lied And the newspapers they all went along for the ride How can the life of such a man Be in the palm of some fool's hand ?  To see him obviously framed Couldn't help but make me feel ashamed to live in a land  Where justice is a game.  Now all the criminals in their coats and their ties Are free to drink martinis and watch the sun rise While Rubin sits like Buddha in a ten-foot cell An innocent man in a living hell That's the story of the Hurricane But it won't be over till they clear his name And give him back the time he's done Put him in a prison cell but one time he could-a been The champion of the world. 
      Hello, faithful reader of mine. As you may or may not know, for all my years on the web, my partner in crime has been Tom. Tom has heard of my endeavors in overthrowing the leaders of the internet and has decided to join me as a pirate, since he is so amazingly awesome at being one. Here are some pictures of tom. This is Tom:    This is Tom's family. He was away comandeering vessels at the time this photo was taken:    This is Tom's child, which may or may not have been produced by his wife:    Well, now that that is over with,we can get to business. If you are interested in helping us bring google to its knees, then email us at pelanpower@hotmail.com to become part of the googlitia. Essentially, we're going to create a web of blogs that we are going to use to google-bomb anyone who wants their site google bombed. Just because we can.  
      So, school is looking to start soon (Wednesday, to be precise), and if school plays out like it normally does, which it will, I will need something like this to vent in. My real purpose for this blog however, is to start an internet revolution. Within days I will surely have an audience of thousands, an audience that I will manipulate to google bomb this blog and my site (that's this one  urlLink Comedy Funny Alex Tom other keywords  (Link to it, just like that children). Yeah, so come back here, and join the revolution! Also, my cousin is now in on this, so we're google bombing his site with the word god:  urlLink God  We're going to make those very rich google execs rewrite their algorithm with all that money, just because we're bitter! 
      Any ideas for a band name? Cellar Door is already taken by some other band, and quite frankly I'm a bit tired of it. It doesn't really fit the "punk rock polka" thing I'm aiming for.  Post ideas por favor. 
      The band as of now still requires:  ~A Bass Player (Hannah? Maybe? PLEASE?!?!?!?!) ~A Drummer ~A Lead Singer ~An Accordion Player (Maryanne maybe? I guess it would be kinda similar to the piano, eh?)  If you already play an instrument or are thinking about taking up one of these instruments (or singing) PLEASE speak up NOW!
      Here's the scoop on the band that never was and probably never will be:  Previously called Cellar Door (from the movie Donnie Darko), the band was established by Maryanne and I. She would play keyboard and I would play guitar. We still required a bass player, drummer, and lead singer of course. We quickly recruited Hannah as second guitar and maybe the lead singer and soon realized that this arrangement was not the best because we still needed many members to complete the group. The plan was to switch Maryanne to bass but that never really worked out. With no lead singer, bass player, or drummer we basically gave up on the band entirely.  However, this summer sparked an idea that started out as a joke but began to really make sense to me. I told a friend that I was going to put together a band that mixes the simplicity of the old 70's punk movement with the original sound of the accordion. Certainly the new style of music that I called "punk rock polka" sounded absurd and funny at first, but it really grew on me. As I listened to my Ramones CDs I began to imagine how well an accordion would blend with that music. So now begins my mission to form a band once again with a completely different kind of sound.  Anyone interested? Anyone care? 
      blah
      www.xanga.com/abbeyrd511    blah 
      I'm just wasting my time....blah 
      yes...yes, it is   blah 
      Bleh...        nah, I dont' like it....I'm sticking with BLAH! 
      It's a great word isn't it?  It could mean... BLAH! blah? blaaaaaaaaaaaaaaah bLaH... ...b...l...a...h.... blahdy blah blah blah blah black sheep BLAH?!?!?!?!?! ...blah....  any my favorite: blah 
      ::Insert evil laugh here::    BLAH....I tell you BLAHHHH! 
      My evil plan.......        All the blahs in the world shall be MINE! 
      yeah...I was just wondering the same thing      blah 
      blah blah blah.....blah blah....    get it? got it? good 
      blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, 
      BLAH!    yeah...I tricked ya, didn't I? 
      BLAHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHH!    hahahha...blah, blah, blah, blah, blah 
      This is a random post....blah blah blah blah blahhhhhhhhhhhhhhh blah blah blahhhh    BLAH BLAHHHHH....I TELL YOU BLLLLLLAAAAAAHHHH! 
      weeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee!  I was playing Drakengard earlier (awesome game. it makes Dynasty Warriors look like Final Fantasy: Mystic Quest, which sucked). Got to chapter 6 and Ariuoch's side chapter. I currently have two weapons which i use (only things in my weapon wheel besides Caim's sword).  Deamonbane lv.4 (cool ass sword) Fheng's Glaive lv.2 (cool ass spear thing)  i got to talk with Michelle today, which i do almost everyday, so VWOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOT!  um.. thats all for now XD (im bad at this blogging/journaling thing)  Sudeki 
      well, i've been thinking, working more on my story for my Creative Writing class, and im thinking of names, and more characters!  Story Names: ... i got nothing x_x  Character Names: Seamus Firecleaver (some sort of Glaive weapon maybe? keeping with the cleaving) Mira Whitemane (some sort of Mage, probably evil)   and thats al i got...  more importantly!    I love Michelle   (my girlfriend)   more then anything, and i decided that i wanted to say something so vwoot! ^_^   
      IM feeling creative right now so, imma post character stuff for a story I'm going to do for me Creative Writing class in High School.   Name:  Ian Verden Havenwing  Age:  19  Race:  Human  D&D Class:  Wizard(ish)  Personality:  Angery and stubborn most of the time. Tends to be a wise ass, but when called for, shows signs of a kind person, always looking out for those close to him.  Apperance:  Short black hair, 5'9, brown eyes. Wears crimson wizard robes. Under that normal cloth breechs and a tunic.  Quote:  Jeff? What the hell kind of a name for a dragon is Jeff?!   Name:  Michelle Elizabeth Darkmoon  Age:  19  Race:  Human  D&amp;D Class:  Ranger  Personality:  Calm, cool, collective. She takes her times with the problems at hand, instead of charging into things like Ian. Most times she is like his opposite, but they get along well.  Apperance:  Leather studded armor (complete with leather breechs). Somewhat long blonde hair, brown eyes. Carries a long bow on her back and a Short Sword at her side.  Quote:  Jeff, if you don't shut up I'm going to be sporting new dragonscale armor.   Name:  Jeff the Dragon  Age:  Really, really old  Race:  Blue Dragon  D&D Class:  Elder Blue Dragon  Personality:  he's much like Ian, which could be why they don't like each other so much.  Apperance:   Dragon Form:    He's a big blue dragon, what do you expect him to look like?  Draconian Form:  A large, humanoid dragon, with blue scales that stands on his hind legs. He has large claw like hands and wears large breastplate armor, and a platemail skilt. He wields a large battle axe.  Quote:  Wizards give me indigestion.   Name:  Mordin Bigbeard  Age:  146  Race:  Dwarf  D&amp;D Class:  none  Personality:  A wise dwarf, unless he is drunk. He egts drunk often. Some say he has issues. He never shoots straighter then when he's drunk.  Appearance:  A little taller then the average dwarf. carries around his rifle, or his "boomstick"  Quote:  Oh no! The ale! Noooooooooooooooooooooooooooooo!    Name:  Infinity  Age:  20,000  Race:  Infinite  D&D Class:  none  Personality:  ???  Appearance:  Black hair, piercing black eyes, no pupils. He wears armor, heavy platemail armor, a dark as night. At his side is his bastard sword, the Moonblade.  Quote:  Tonight i shall feast upon your flesh.   Name:  Mira Shadowsong  Age:  2,000  Race:  Infinite  D&amp;D Class:  none  Personality:  ???  Appearance:  Long dark hair, soft blue eyes. She wears a skin tight dress, that as large slights up the side. She has a dark blueish skin and can summon a large Scythe at will.  Quote:  ??? 
      Weeee! Another blog/journal/thingy! so... lets talk about something recent..  i went to Vermont. It was somewhat boring. I couldn't talk to Michelle, my girlfriend, or play ps2/gamecube so i read alot. I read volume one of the Dhamon saga and im half way through The Second Generation (both Dragonlance books). I went out on an ATV, riding, gettin' muddy and sheet. Friday night we got a big storm, and i was sleeping in a tent outside my uncle house so i went and slept in the car around 2:30. The next day i did the same, but i also went to eh Rodeo and watched a guy get stomped by a bull. Before that i went to the mall and bought Shining Soul 2 from EB Games. over all, this weekend wasn't that bad, but i would have rather been home x_x.  Shining Soul 2 ownz you. peace.  Sudeki 
         A couple of nights ago, when I was laying on my bed focusing on not to focus on anything since I wanted to sleep, I hear this strange sound coming from the wall. I live wall to wall with some strange persons I started to think when I after a, somewhat confusing, "thud thud thud thud"-sound got surprised and scared by a "aaahhhhhhhhh"-sound. This "aaahhhhhhhhh"-sound was not a scream, it was more like a long tired sound belonging to some unknown animal from southern Timbuktu, or outer space. I immediately thought they had a secret restaurant which only served to be extinct animals (yes the clock was 4:30 am and yes I was most certainly making strange conclusions) - I saw this somewhat crappy Mafia film where this occurred. Anyway, I changed my mind when remembering the strange thud-sounds - OH MY GOD ARE THEY BEATING THEM?! (Wasn't that tired) - and thus concluded that they are a lot stranger than I am and do have more peculiar hobbies. I now got back to trying to fall asleep, which is hard when you're me, but of course something even more frightening was going to happen. The scream of death. It was like "AHHHHHHHHH" and so loud it could have been some hungry monster under my bed (thank God it wasn't). It made me jump like half a meter straight up in the air (thank God my bed is soft) and after that it took like ten minutes to recover from the awful experience. Actually I still haven't recovered... I DON'T KNOW WHAT TO DO?! WHAT IF SOMEONE DIED?! Ok, maybe I still have my sanity, but I will never again ask them for anything! I'm probably better of not knowing what happened, though whatever did happen - dead human, dead animal... - it was bad. Evil lurks in every corner of that house, I tell you! Bad neighbors must be the worst invention since the sheep.      
         I've totally lost it. Seriously, I'm so mentally disoriented I can't even differ left from right... or was it, hmm... never mind! It really hurts me that my life is this strange. I don't know what to feel or think about anything - it's so complicated I can't even make out if it actually is complicated or not (when I think about it ought to fit someone simpleminded) and thus explains it with this crap. Blah, like anyone will ever read this anyway. I mean there are like millions and billions of different guinea pigs on this site. By signing up you doom yourself to eternal walling (new verb created by YOURS TRULY, meaning "talking to a wall"). Getting back on track; ARGH HELP ME! MAKE SOMETHING GOOD OUT OF ME! Please I beg you, yes you american human being, adapt me to your stinking society of useless skin blocks that resemble me (but better)... I, seriously, beg you! OK, this time, getting back on the real, solid, preferably metal track! Geez, there's no track nor spoon here... just shoot me, or worse condemn me to eternal blogging (walling) on this site! The horror... the horror... 
      For the brine:   1 bottle Fruit2O, lemon flavor couple tbls soy sauce dried onion flakes chopped garlic lemon pepper seasoning black pepper salt couple shakes of Tabasco  I just eyeball this.  Put the chicken wings, about a dozen, split into drums and flats into a ziploc bag.  Pour in the Lemon water, add the seasonings.  Zip to close.  Shake well.  Pop in a bowl (in case it leaks) and set in fridge for about hour.  Drain off brine and continue with chosen cooking process.  I tend to coat and bake mine.  Brining makes the chicken juicier, more tender and it just has a better flavor all around.  It doesn't take much time or effort, and the Fruit2O already has the sweetner dissolved into it, so you can add just about anything.  I have found that the options listed above work pretty good.  Like garlic a lot?  Add more.  Omit the onion if you don't like it.  Leave out the lemon pepper, substitute it for something else.  You really can't leave out the soy though, that's pretty important for the salt.  I wouldn't leave wings in this longer than 2 hours.  You can certainly increase the amount and brine larger things, like that turkey breast I have thawing in the fridge, it's getting this treatment come Wednesday night. 
      Today I prepare for a colonoscopy and an endoscopy. Which means tomorrow morning, I will (hopefully) be knocked silly by really good drugs and be probed from both ends. The prep for such an event, is not pretty,  First, don't eat anything during the day. That means, breakfast consists of a Tropicana (tm)  Some Pulp Orange Juice and a Diet Dew. Lunch with your spouse is a cup of coffee, no cream! And a glass of ice tea, with lemon. Eyeball her cottage cheese and mentally smack yourself. Then cave in on the way back to work and pick up some Jell-o (tm) snack packs, lime and orange. Consume 4 snack packs in 10 minutes (give the orange one's to your mom). Sigh. Listen to your stomach complain, tell it it doesn't know how good it has it right now.  Come home from work and proceed to work with food, knowing full well that you can't have any of it. Proceed to take the tips off of 7 lbs. of chicken wings, freeze this for future broth makings. Split wings into drummets and flats and then pop them into a bag for a quick brining. You're already ahead of the game, cause you made up a big batch of wing coating the night before, go you! Let the wings sit for an hour in the brine and watch some Olympics (synchronized swimmers). Melt butter, coat wings and put in the oven. And now the really fun part begins.  Start to consume, as quickly as possible the most disgusting, foul, nasty tasting water you have ever had. The cute medical name for this hideous drink? GoLytely. Yeah, I am not amused, and I bet Holly wouldn't be either. Suck this back as fast as you can, gasp for breath between gulps. Quickly suck on a Lifesaver to kill the taste. Repeat, ad nauseum, literally. Bleargh. I am not one to gag in general, but this stuff makes me start making noises that even the cats look at me funny for. And then my wife looks at me all sad and says that she would drink this for me if she could. But hey, she promised to do the "Poop Clear Cheer" for me later on, so wheee! I got that working for me.  And now my guts are roiling, and the house smells like tasty chicken wings and I can't have any. I can't have anything other than another tasty, lip smacking glass of GoLytely (yum!) and a mint. And a cigarette. Can I say that my mouth tastes so, so very nasty? It does. So not letting my wife kiss me anytime soon. Churn, bubble, the insides do not like this concoction that has been forced on them, and quite frankly, neither do I. This sucks. There's just no way around how sucky this is. And this isn't the first time I've had to do it either. In fact, I think this is my 3rd, or 4th time. I've been lucky and not had to go under the scope since my surgery in 1997, so, cross fingers, everything will look good tomorrow.  I'm waiting for my body to stop doing what it's doing so I can take a shower. The hospital always wants you to be clean when you show up, even if you can't use deodorant (I don't understand it either). I guess it's in case they perforate me somewhere and have to wheel me off to surgery, they don't want me going in a "smelling like a fresh breeze" or something.  After the event takes place, I've been admonished that I must have a responsible driver there, because I will NOT BE ALLOWED TO DRIVE. I also shouldn't smoke by myself or plan on signing any legal documents tomorrow, while I'm under the influence of these drugs. Fun fun. I can only assume I will go home with both my kidney's intact.  The extra fun part of it all? It's a brand new doctor. One I have only seen once before, and that was just a "hi, I hear you're really good with Crohn's Disease and I happen to have that and I didn't like my old doc to much so how bout we form a search party and go investigate my colon, okay?" Always fun to start a new relationship off naked in a butt flapping gown with someone you hardly knows finger up your butt. Sigh.  Hopefully, all goes well and I can sleep through it all and stumble after my spouse and finally get something to eat. But not before the "Poop Clear Cheer!".   
                hmm.. this is the first blog im making in this blogger?! haha.. didnt realli no how to use it.. n the skin is kinda bad! newayzz.. so freakin boring.. everyday just sit n watch vcd, tapes n play the pc.. =[ jenny went to alberta yesterday w/ her family! omgosh.. sho saD! mizzing her soo freakin much!!haha.. shes going dere for a week? datz not gdd! but den newayzz.. since i fink no one i no will know abt this stupid blogger i made.. den i will rite my shytz lah! haha.. ok.. so now.. i've got nth to say... =S.. just too much fingz happened makin me kinda fink itz too much fingz n kei sut hai mo mut yeh lor... newayzz.. dou ng g ngor gong gun d mut...         so.. yes.. i no i wuz being stupid n telling qq abt that shyt.. but rmbing dat sg sed dat bb neva told him not to tell abt dat.. so he told me lor.. n since u didnt say dat wuznt suppose to tell.. den wutz the meaning to being mad n not being frdz w/ us nemore..?? n u sed cuz of the attitude sg wuz talking to u.. mayb u got the wrong attitude lor.. n i fink ur attitude wuz more negative.. n the trust u sed.. ok.. u see... u say we r not trustworthy nemore.. but so wut?! u fink u so trustworthy meh? n all the frdz arnd u ho trustworthy meh? dun b gay! u tell 10 ppl abt 1 fing at least 5 of them will spill it out lor.. n u're not being trustworthy to sum ppl too.. u actualli told andy dat dada likes him.. when u hate her? dat doesnt make any sense! n u sed dat sg should no dat fing wuznt suppose to tell? well dai lo ah.. who the heck will no wut other ppl fink...? unless u tell them lor.. n u kept on asking ppl know abt that fing who told them... n u... alwayz fink itz me n sg dat told every1? we told u.. dat sg told me.. n i told qq.. n u told qq urself too.. den itz the same fing.. itz just same just dat she knows abt it few hrs earlier? erm! n u got mad n shyt.. isnt dat too childish of u? n i no that u fink dat is different.. ok.. for example.. there is a vancouver sun newspaper n province newspaper.. n qq read the vancouver sun first n no abt that incident.. n lata sum1 told her to read the province.. n itz the same fing lor! n ur car shyt.. u fink i told ppl too lor.. ok wtf?! i neva told any abt it.. n sum other ppl no it cuz they told them.. n u got mad at me n sg cuz of dat skool fing.. y dun u go n not b frdz w/ those ppl u told n who they told?? itz not like i want to spazz or anyfing.. but wut the hell.. just a gay damn shyt dat u did.. n itz a real fing.. then y u care so much abt it? itz true dan dun b mad ppl say abt it.. if itz not the truth.. ppl say abt it.. den ur mad n stuff r acceptable but not itz not.. i duno how u could waste 2 yrs n more frdship in this 1 sentence just contain less than 15secs? itz stupid.. holy fcking stupid shyt!..n u told ppl abt it.. cuz u dun want any 1 of them to help us when we need help.. n i tell u! we dun need ur help nemore.. cuz den u hv lotz of frdz.. n they all gonna listen to ur shyt.. n den lookin down on us.. i duno if u will ho gor lor! mayb u gonna b happi n shytt.. but we r not.. n skool is soon.. i duno if u will do anyfing to harm us.. ok.. if u do.. i duno wut will i do lor.. but to tell u.. u didnt gif us any1 of us.. any respect.. after u cheated on me.. u just fink dat im ur bank.. n supporting money on u.. n same as sg.. he supports u w/ $$ lor.. i mean.. u just sed not b frdz n not gif us bak anyfing? my 20bucks n more? n sg's 60bucks n his bike that u lost? we respect u for everyfing.. but u didnt even respect us 1 bit! now i gave enuf bs! n here.. i want to say a sry to u! for wut i told qq~n for sg telling me            
      Ya know, when I moved up here to Toledo, I knew that it would be cold.  I even knew that it would be really cold.  Hell, I even knew that it would get really cold sooner then I am used to.  What I did not anticipate is having to chip the ice off my nut sack in earlyNovember.  The cold here came on so fast that I think my nuts shot so far up into my body that they bounced of my rib cage.  Now anyone with nuts knows that feeling you get when they start to get cold and try to climb up to your neck to stay warm.  It is like the little bastards have a life of their own when the weather gets bad.  One day, when it is not quite so cold, they are just hanging around like they don’t have a problemin the world, then when a stiff breeze comes by they go running for warming places like a flock of migrating birds.  After a while, that gets really stinking annoying.   However, that has not been my problem lately. When the weather changes to cold here, the weather forecasters talk about something called the lake effect.  Ya see, when you have a large body of fucking cold water and the wind blows over it, you then have fucking cold wind.  Then  said wind blows over everything, including me, and steals any heat from it.  Thus my current disagreement with my nuts about how to act in cold weather.  It has been so cold here, that I don’t think I have seen my nuts in a week.  The only reason that I still know I have them is that I don’t sound like a 12 year old girl when I talk, plus I can still hear them plotting a way to get into a woman’s pants.   Which leads me to my next topic.  I recently got hit on.  By a woman. That looked like she was hot.  Twenty years ago.    Now I know that I look old for my age, but damn!  This woman could have been my mother.  She had a nice body, a great ass, and gorgeous hair.  Then I saw her face.  I would bet that in her prime, she was beautiful, but now is not her prime.  Nor was the 1980's.  She even went so far as to ask for my home phone number, in the guise of a confused customer needing advice and being overwhelmed by the technology that she had just bought.  Granted, I did go out of my way to save her $100 bucks, but that is really just my job and the way that I work.  Instead of a $100 program, she bought a $340 DVD Burner.  (Damn, am I a kick ass sales guy or what?)  She asked what time I left work, then appeared sad that she would not get home in time to try it out and still talk to me if she had any problems.  Well apparently she made it home in record time, tried it out, then called me to tell methat everything worked and that I am a genius.  After talking to her for about 20 minutes, she proclaimed that she loved me and that I was wonderful.  She also said she would call me again today.   Well she didn’t, and I am almost disappointed.  I figure that at 45 or so she would be rather well learned in the ways of nookie.  If she had any kids, one may be a daughter, and that daughter may be hot, and also may be legal.  Worst case, I would at least have a Sugar Mama.   Now I can hear you thinking how horrible I am to think that, but look at it this way.  If you were approached by a rather attractive person that was almost twice your age, flirted with, and by the looks of them were rather wealthy, would you really not at least think about going for it?  Damn skippy, you would.  The longer I live in the city, the more I hate it.  There are more crazy, ignorant, and stupid people here then I could have ever believed possible.  I can walk outside to get the damn mail without seeing either a crack head, a moron, a crook, or at least the psycho neighbors with the statue of the Virgin Mary right next to the Witches Balls.  Oh yeah, and the red light that shines on the garage door painted three different colors of neon.  With the retard grandson that lives with them and stares through the bathroom window when my cousin/room mate/landlord is trying to get dressed.  The other day I was parking in a Kroger’s lot to get some groceries and I saw a large black man walking through the lot waving a gun around.  After deciding that he was either too cracked up or two nuts to really be much of a threat to a fat white guy like myself, I walked into the store and told the woman at customer service what was going on.  She just sighed and said “Again?” like it was something that happened every 3rd Sunday or something.  I was shocked.  I got my groceries and I left.  Another thing that I have learned about city people is the complete lack of understanding about how things really work.  I am not just talking about cars or computers, I am talking about life in general.  Below I will list some things that apparently city people have not figured out yet:  1.  Sex makes babies.  I see so many women walking around with a litter of screaming kids that I want to go on a killing spree.  First of all, I have two words for these people.  STOP FUCKING!!!!  Second of all, if you can’t afford the 37 kids you already have, what in the fuck makes you think that you can afford the 13 more that you want!  Hey, save some of that welfare money for the people that really need it.   2.  In the old days, if you wanted to eat something, you had to KILL IT FIRST.  I hear so many people here bitching about meat that is not perfectly red or too high in fat content that I want to beat the shit out of them.  Think about it people!  Hamburger comes from a cow, not the fucking Piggly Wiggly, and yes CHICKEN IS MEAT TOO.  If I hear one more scrawny ass, heroin addict looking bitch tell me that meat is bad, I’m gonna scream.  Meat, and I am not just talking about the cow variety, is meant to be eaten.  If the Gods did not mean for us to eat meat, they wouldn’t have given us those sharp, pointy teeth to tear it with, and they would have made it taste like a four day old pile of shit.    3.  Put a city person in the middle of Nowhere, and they would be totally screwed.  I once asked about a cell phone plan and what the service area was.  I, in return, got a funny look and was told that it should work in most buildings.  Stupid bitch.  I wonder if it ever occurred to her that there was a world outside of the overly sanitized, carbon monoxide filled, shithole called Toledo?  If the bitch were lost and could not call somewhere for directions, she would wonder around until she ended up worm food.  And the world would be a better place.  4.  If you stack people on top of people on top of people, things are gonna start to get strange.  Ever smell the mixture of Chinese, Hindu, and American food mixing?  It smells like the ass end of a pissed offskunk.  Another thing about the point above, most of them have never even seen a skunk, just a picture of one when they were flipping through the channels because the Discovery Channel is right between MTV and the Fashion Network.  Anyway, I have noticed that the people that live in apartment buildings all their life tend to have a different view of the world.   Not that I blame them, if I was living only ten feet under another person’s ass, I would have a different view as well.  5.  When the day comes that society breaks down, all the city people will be fucked.  There are three possible things that could happen to a city person when that happens.  One, they will end up getting shot and eaten by a roving gang of thugs then the thugs will die because they don’t know that you need to clean and dress a kill before cooking it.  (And for all you city people reading this, dressing does not mean wearing an Armani tux or a Versace skirt) Two, they will just die a quivering mass of terrified flesh because they can’t call up their therapist on their cell phone. Three, they will try to move out to thecountry and will be taken prisoner by a group of Rednecks and told to squeal like a pig.   Now the country people understand that when you shoot an animal, not only do you have to remove all the internal organs, you have to either bury any meat that you don’t use, or smoke it until it is dry and will last a lot longer before going bad and turning your digestive tract into nothing but a vomit producing mass of tissue.  Also, they will not know that if a bird won’t eat a berry off a bush, you shouldn’t either.   I figure that when that happens, the first thing I am going to do is steal a fast car with a full tank of gas, pick up some of the people that I give a shit about up here (all 3 of them) and head for my parents place.  If any man could survive the downfall of the government and the complete breakdown of society, it would be my dad.  I have images of him dropping of out trees on his prey, wearing nothing but a loin cloth and holding a stone knife in his teeth.  Also, he has a small arsenal of weapons stockpiled there.  Sure, none of it is more powerful then a standard hunting shotgun, but when hunting squirrel or rabbit, you don’t need an AK-47.  You want to kill the thing, not turn it into a fine red mist.  Also, living in a house made of brick would be useful as well.  That way of one of those groups of Rednecks that took you as their bitch come knocking, we don’t have to worry about them shooting holes in the house.  It would take a small army of people to take that house.  Or one tank, but lets not think of that should we?  I can name all the people that would survive with out cell phones, hot running water, indoor plumbing, Wal-Mart, and feminine hygiene products on one hand.  All the rest of the city people will either end up starving, poisoning themselves by not knowing that you can’t cook something that is grey before you cook it and still live, or attacking the cute, furry woodland creature that happens to be a badger with nothing more then a pocket knife and getting your arm chewed off. Trust me, those little bastards are mean.  The best thing about the fall of society, is that the majority of the people that would die are the ones that humanity would do well to get rid of anyway.  It’s all about Darwinism, and Darwinism is a topic for another Soapbox.  The strong will survive.  The smart will survive.  And, most importantly, I will survive.  If for no other reason then to keep writing shit like this and annoying the fuck out of people like you.  Have a good night. 
      Ok kiddies, let the games begin. I recently received an email that I thought that I should pass on. It dealt with 9/11 and a traditional American response. Now I am not about to suggest that we should forget the lessons learned on that day, but instead I am suggesting that we MOVE ON. Life sucks, get a fucking helmet. I am not blaming the person that sent this to me for the ignorance contained in the email. I can see how someone can see this and accept it as fact, and as such want to share it. However, I feel the need to set the record straight on this little matter.   America is typically represented by an eagle. Perhaps Saddam Hussein should have read up on the Quran ......       The following verse is from the Quran, (theIslamic Bible) Quran (9:11) -- For it is written that a son of Arabia would awaken a fearsome Eagle. The wrath of the Eagle would be felt throughout the lands of Allah and lo, while some of the people trembled in despair still more rejoiced; for the wrath of the Eagle cleansed the lands of Allah; and there was peace.    Note the verse number.   Now, I have read much of other religions. I spent many years studying and searching for answers to the questions of life. I will not bore you with the details, but I will say that one of the religions thatI did study was Islam. I spent a great amount of time looking at its ways and practices, and I even read bits and part of the Koran, or Quran, Islam's version of the Christian Bible. Chapter 9, verse 11 says, and I quote, "11. But if they repent, perform As-Salât (Iqâmat-as-Salât) and give Zakât, then they are your brethren in religion. (In this way) We explain the Ayât (proofs, evidences, verses, lessons, signs, revelations, etc.) in detail for a people who know. "  As you can see, there is nothing to do with a fucking bird. The verse quoted does not exist. I checked. So now, the “Patriotic American” is fabricating shit to make not only ourselves look better, but to make those of Islamic background appear stupid. There is not, and never was, anything about a son of Allah waking a fucking eagle. What the fuck are you people thinking? Let’s get a grip! What the hell are people trying to do here, give us another reason to hate others? Stupidity I can forgive (to an extent), ignorance I can forgive, but blatant lying and fabrication are something that I can't forgive. People like the ones that created this email are the true terrorists. They want only to sow dissension, and will fabricate lies to do so, in order to create a world where only “their” people will be able to live in harmony. Well fuck “their” people and “their” lifestyle. I want to live in a world where hate either does not exist or can be based on factual information. I want to live in a world where I don't have to worry if I park in an area dominated by blackpeople. I want to live in a world where I can call any man a brother and any woman a sister, because deep down we are all bound by the same principles that existed when God/Goddess/Allah/or whoever created man. Maybe I am a dreamer, maybe I am in denial, or maybe such a thing can happen. Maybe.  Now on to the part that I know everyone wants to hear about.  The Anal Bleeding.  As many of you know, I am in the process of buying a car. I called my insurance company and asked what the cost would be to cover the car. Now before I go any further I should say what kind of car I am getting. It is not a Dodge Viper or any such shit, it is a '99 Mercury Cougar. A fucking Mercury. Now the insurance place gave me a quote that nearly had me sitting in a pile of my own shit. $1134 every six months. What the fuck? For that much I better have insurance that replaces the car if a tire goes flat. But NOO, it is just average coverage based on what the bank needs me to have on the car. That is more then my cousin pays in homeowners, auto, life, and personal injury put together! What the fuck are theses people thinking, that I'm driving a damn airplane to work? Seven thousand foot sail boats have cheaper insurance. Bill Gates has cheaper insurance for Microsoft. Like the great philosopher GeorgeCarlin said, “who ever said let the buyer beware was probably bleeding from the ass.” Well guess what? That company is not getting a piece from me. No fucking way. Instead I am going to switch to a company that just wants my money, not my money, my second born, and both testicles.  And that's all I have to say about that.  C.  P.S. Please note that being offended and enraged is the price of admission into the little part of my head that gets off on writing these soapboxes. If you decide that it is not worth the cost, then I will provide a full and written apology if you send a self addressed and stamped envelope to my address. Please include $20 for shipping and handling, as well as to cover the materials fee.  
      So why a blog? Because I fucking wanted to, that’s why. I have always believed that I was given an opinion and a loud ass mouth because everyone wants to hear what I have to say. And I have a lot to say.  So why a blog? I have read and enjoyed the blogs of many other people, most notably  urlLink  www.gorillamask.net   and  http://tweekerchick.blogspot.com/  (I so wanna meet this woman). I have been writing my line of shit for over a year and sharing it with my friends and chicks that I have nailed, and then it was suggested that I take it global. That’s right baby, The Soapbox Network is going global. Now everyone with a computer and a taste for internet porn can read my shit and assume what everyone that has come with in 3 feet of me knows, there is something fundamentally wrong with me. Maybe it was something that happened when I was a child, like being dropped on my head or some other cliché shit, or maybe it is something more sinister like being possessed by Satan’s horny dog. It has also been suggested that I am an old soul, reborn into this life because some fucking moron did something stupid and I died because if it. I personally believe that one.  So why a blog? Because it is my personal mission to offend, piss off, annoy, and generally spout off my shit to everyone. If someone clicks the little X in the corner of the window and is not in the least bit amused/hurt/offended, then I need to try harder. I enjoy offending people. I love the reaction that I get when I say something that upsets or surprises someone. I think it is funny when someone looks at me like I just grew a second head or popped a full grown baboon out of my ass. And then, the very best part is when they later think about something that I said and realized that under all my arrogant posturing is a grain of truth, a nugget of rational thought. Granted, that nugget might have been taken past the point of silly, but isn’t that part of the fun?  
      This is part two to my original Blog on RT. I forgot my password on RT and was disgusted when I discovered the HELL I had to endure to get it. So #$@! them- this is my new home. After four months of sitting for snot man and big man, their secretary came back. I knew it was coming, I knew one day I would have to go. I knew one day I would have to clear out my 4 pairs of shoes and 2 pairs of sneakers out from under her desk. I knew one day I would have to scoop up my change from her front left drawer and give her back her desk, but when the time came, I admit, I wasn’t ready. It was my birthday (the big 27) and I was schleping bags home full of my stuff from her desk. I was taking off that friday to go hang out with D in the city, but before we did that, we ended up dropping A off and I had to face A s mother- the cow bitch of bitches once again. Before you start accusing me of being that jealous girlfriend hear me out.  I met this woman, we will call C (apprpirate for more than one reason) a few months ago when Gabby and I went to A s first communion. I admit, Im not the best catholic in the world- I have lots of beef with the catholic church. But Gabby saved my ass- she went to catholic school so she knew all of the "and also with yous" like I was taking her every sunday. D's catholic family Im sure appreciated that.  But that’s besides the point. So I go there, with D and his family and Gabby, and she is there. I walk in. And yes, I looked pretty sassy in my cute green dress and little shoes. Hair in a loose up do. Very "Im not trying to be hot but I cant help it- IAM" kinda look. Anyhow, she turns around and we are introduced. So, true to form, I say "HELLO! its so great to finally meet you!" and stick my hand out to say hi. She says "oh hi" very monotone and quickly turns around.. The whole time and even after the communion she ignored Gabby and I. She wouldn’t even turn around and look at us. Nothing. It was like we were not there. Even when it was time to go she didnt say goodbye, didnt say "Gee, thanks for coming, at its finally nice to meet the woman that drives 12 hours to come and get my son every other weekend!!". No, to her, I was the enemy and definitely not welcome to this event. So I let it go. I was a little miffed, but hey, I mean, if I weighed 200lbs and had fucked up hair and skin, and had to see me all cute with the 1.5 carat rock on her hand, I guess I would hate me too. :)  So, time goes on, and I don’t see her till my b day celbration day, when we are dropping A off at his grandparents so she can come and get him for the weekend. It is a Friday, and C probably has NO clue we have taken the day off. We drive to the condo and who is pulling up and we are pulling up? Yes.. C. We go inside and she is standing in the outside hallway and asks to come inside to use the bathroom. So she comes in and there I am standing in the tiny hallway, and there is Gabby sitting on the floor, trying to tie her shoe. She turned her head as to face the opposite direction and not look at me and almost passed me like I wasn’t there until I said "HI C!!" and once again got the monotone "oh hi". She almost ran into the other wall looking the other way like that. So that was my experience. And she’s lucky Gabby didn’t say anything to her, because Gabby says what goes through that little mind of hers as SOON as it does.  It would not have been out of charactor for Gabby to ask her what her problem is.  SO, when I get pissed about it I get told "well A loves his mother, and that’s all that matters". I beg to differ. Im tired of being nice. If she is rude to Gabby or me one more time, Im confronting her. I may call her even and say something along the lines of "don’t you think its better to handle things like grown ups for the sake of the kids?" I mean I see her son every other weekend for Christs’ sake!! Life is too short. Im tired of being stressed over shit like this. I guess in theory, I could just not go with D when he drives all the way to Mass to get A (she wont meet us halfway). But I feel so bad for him when he goes there. Gabby and I drive all the way up there with him, because we love D and A . He goes inside and gets A and we sit and wait in the car. How lame is this? C has a boyfriend. The relationship ended 5 years ago! If Gabbys father had a girlfriend who loved Gabby as much as I do A , I would be so god dammed happy I would be taking the girl out for drinks. I just dont get the bitter bullshit. But Im growing weary. Not only that, but D needs to talk to her as well.  So any insight would be appreciated. 
      she knows its  over  and according to her  memory  this is the  worst december  she's had to go through. she walks between the  palmtrees and powerlines  late that night  counting  the  stars  she passes. she hears a truck he sees her, and pulls over and sees if she wants a ride. she gets in trying to keep her  head up  but he knows   she's   been  crying  and he asked whats your  destination  the only word she could say was  " anywhere " he says fine then  back to california  it is, as the words reach her ears    the blade    falls from her fist"im not going back it doesnt matter  what you say  she reaches for the door but its too late he's got her by the arm and tells her she wont  sign off  this ride now as the  champgnae  is forced down, the darkness falls.....(the     blue italic    words make one title but the rest follows as normal) 
      when life was  breaking benjamin  and he felt  so cold  after pushing everything  away  he tried to  believe  in his fathers words" sooner or later  we all want to  breakdown  and just  forget  about life and everything in  it ." as ben watched the  rain  he saw the  firefly  in the distance and started thinking  we are not alone  in this  simple  world with its complex  design . "someday i'll find that someone to  break my fall  and hold me close,someday i will find my somebody" he thought to himself as he strolled the street, destiny was calling and he knew he must  follow.   
      she looked though the house in the open air, flicked on  the light and  there lay  the glass  next to the head of her lover. she knew now she had reached the  backend of forever  and this  blood red summer  was too much to handle, but then it happend she heard  the   evil   crowing  of  al the killer . she'd had enough this house was full of memories and the  three evils emobodied in love and shadow .  the cuts  marked deep  in  her skin made her think of  the march  when the house was full  of men , but it was just  a favor house  in the great  atlantic . this was  the ring in return  the moment she had waited for, this  faint of hearts  makes it hard for one  in  the job of  keeping  the  secrets of  this  silent earth , and she new this would be the last time she would morn. (please tell me ur gettin the pattern song titles in  green  and  purple  blah blah blah) 
       Maria  sat there with her  poprocks & coke  and  she  thought in the  longview  they would  welcome  her  to paradise . others labled her a  basket case " people will wanna be  hitchin'  a ride   when i come around " she said. they say im a  walking contradiction  but get this ur not  stuck with me  so  good riddance  but heres a  warning ,  nice guys finish  last so you'll spend a little time  waiting . so off to the  macy's day parade  the town went, they all say its just a bunch of  jaded   brain stew   geek stink breathed   minority  pepole, its all to  redundan t if you ask me. i blame  j.a.r.  and  greenday  with there  international superhits.   (song titles in  green  and  purple  band and album name in  red )  
       Standing in the shower thinking   ted  realized he  just  had to  admitt it , and show his  true nature . he thinks to himself so this is the  price i pay  for being a  superhero . yes its true that everyone will  suffer some  and he cant be  everybody's friend , theres  nothing shocking  about that, no not at all. so he decides to go  up the beach  to the bar but this time he had met the  wrong girl . she controlls all the men wats  janes addiction  you ask? well no one knows for sure she mostly keeps to herself and says that  idiots rule  but to them  the riches  she has are enough  to match the sun .  jane says  just because your not  ocean size  doesnt mean u have to settle fot the  mountain song . for jane the  summer time rolls  at a  hypersonic  pace. she knows she dont have to look'em in the eyes and say  thank you boys , she  had a dad  once thats when she made up her mind that men are no better then  pigs in zen  just a bunch of  strays.   (song titles are writen in  green  and  purple  band name in  red )  
       ok...this summer has been hella boring almost everyday! well thats because i left mai home (Guam) and yeah didnt have anyone to kick back with =( o wellz. well yeah im kinda glad im not there because wen i was, i had so many problems with mai group and not to mention guys but yeah i had alittle problems with mai guy friends...which really sucked,but i also wished that i was there too because i miss everyone! all mai friendz! just hopefully that we keep in touch. But yeah i feel like talking bout "some" of mai problems.. ok umm..lets start with mai so called "group" we had so many arguements this whole year...which i didnt like umm...alot of us had problems with eachother like me for example umm yeah i know that all of 'em have problems with me...ok? i dont think im making any sence...anyways yeah here was a big problem..One day i met this dude and yea we wer all getting close and everything...so yeah all mai attention went on him insteat of mai friends which i still feel bad about. I started kicking back with him and yeah doing everything with him...having fun en yeah...mai friendz got pissed because i wasnt spending time with 'em and yeah i was almost leaving here at washington so i felt really bad as hell dude. so yeah they wanted me to stay away from the dude(sorry i dont want to name names here) and yeah there's was no way i could do that i mean he was like EVERYTHING you want in a guy...sweet...caring...loving..and everything. so it was hard. we both didnt like the idea but it was for mai friends so yeah i had to do it. but anyways we didnt kick back for a while which really sucked! but yeah i had all mai friendz lecture me and everything and it wasnt nice. ehehe but yeah everything got ok after words and yeah i got to kick back with him agen...which i was so happy about! but yeah then the day i was leaving came...it was such a bummer! well some of mai friendz came to mai house to say goodbye because they couldnt make it to the airport...and yeah so did "he". i gotz a twetty from mai bestfriend and an elephant from him...he sed he had it since he was 10 i think. so i sed mai goodbye's and yeah now im here and i mizz 'em all!! mai life is ruined now! mai life was perfect at Guam. well i still keep in touch with mai friendz i call them every now and then. and yeah just wish that they wer here!!!  
       I have decided to take the rest of the day off. Given my current situation I have the authority to say when my own day is over. All I have to do during my remaining days here is go around post getting signatures from different areas of administrations to out processes so I can leave. Showing up to the morning accountability formation is the only obligation I have to the company now, which kinda sucks because I have to get up at 6:00am every morning to walk to formation stand around for like thirty minutes then go back to my room to go back to sleep for another two hours, get up and do what ever else I have left. Which isn't a lot.    I am almost done, so I usually end up sitting in my room watching TV or play video games with Ryan. He gets off work at 2:00pm every day so it works out okay for us to have the whole rest of the day to spend together.       My birthday is coming up on Saturday. I'm pretty excited, although I'm not sure what Ryan has planned. He has bought me presents and has been excited to give them to me.    I will be turning 24, funny I don't feel older. O-well I guess that's why they say age is only a number, and you're only old if you feel old. Yeah, whatever!!      Ummm that's about all I have for you today. I'm sure things will get more exciting when I get home and then to Kuwait.  Take care.  Peace!  
      So here I am sitting on my couch, thinking of ways to spend some of my daily time. I was just sitting here surfing the web and decided to check my dad's Blog, which he hasn't added to since last Monday, so I thought I would go and start my own. I am pretty sure this will please my family. I don't get to talk to them that often because I am on the other side of the Country in Georgia getting ready to go over to Kuwait. (Oh yeah, I guess I should let everyone know I am from a suburb right on the outskirts of Sacramento, CA.) And I know once I get over there the phone calls will be even more rare because they have no way of calling Kuwait so it will all be up to me, and even I don't know how often I will be able to use the phone once I get there. I'm pretty sure I will be able to use the computers to update this blog more than being able to call everyone and let them know what's going on in my life. Plus I'm sure they will love to read about what I will be going through over there. I'm actually a little excited to go. I have all ready been over there for about a week while enroute to Baghdad, Iraq and on the way home. It was nothing to be worried about compared to the constant bombings in Iraq.  Right now I am stationed out here in Augusta, GA at Fort Gordon. I have been here for nearly two years. My technical job is a Cable systems installer and maintainer, but the only time I do my job is when we get deployed which has only happened once, so other than that you can find me raking leaves, mowing grass or any other odds and ends that they can think of to take up our time durring the day. In January they sent a group of twelve of us to Baghdad to install the AL Faw palace (yes, one of Saddam's palaces) it was to be made into a major coalition and army headquarters for Iraq. That same palace is currently being used for Saddam's trial. So I kinda feel like we did something important and very useful for our country.  I also came home with a new boyfriend. We were over there together, got to know each other better, decided we like eachother (duh), and started dating. We have been friend the whole time I have been in Georgia so we knew eachother but never pursued one another, could be because I was in a relationship :) It's been really great for me so far. There is only one bad thing that is going to happen between us, I am leaving in a month and he (Ryan) has to stay here. Allthough he has been trying to get an assignment to come over there with me, it hasn't been looking good for the home team. We have talked about it and decided that we were going to stay together and see where things go from there. We have been spending all our time together, and I will be bringing him home to "Meet the Parents" in about two weeks. Hope that goes as well as planned. I want to take him to San Francisco one day while at home. He will also be meeting my highschool friend Rachael. I'm sure I will be able to show him a good time. He has never been to California. He is from Pennsylvania, which I got to see last time I went on leave he took me home to meet his family, which I loved. We had a lot of fun. Well, I guess I should go and do stuff so I can come back and write about it later. Take care. ;)   
      Ya know what, my job is not to make people fell alll warm and fuzzy about their products, my job is tell you to deal with it yourself crybaby and move on with life!  Later... Let me clarify here. I think the publics perception of customer service is severly warped. There are legitimate complaints that a company needs to discuss and resolve with a customer. Then unfortuneately there are a large population of idiots who are too dumb to find their ass in the dark with both hands and a flashlight.  There are also a large number of people who want a whole lot of something for nothing. Then you have those that really deseve something but because the afore mentioned people have exhausted the system and the company's services those services are no longer being offered.  Is this just in my company? NO!This is nationwide people from mom and pops places to corporate america. Here's a bit of truth, we all think at one time or another were entitled to something more for whatever reason, well guess what ? Regardless of whether you, I, or whoever feels they are entitled to more doesn't mean  you're always gonna get  it. Honestly sometimes I take perverse pleasure in shutting these people down cold. There is some joy in customer service after all. 
      A microwave is a great thing but people this is not a necessity to life! It's a convience and no matter how much  you love the stupid thing just b/c it is broken does not mean you can act like a raving lunatic, be rude, or speak in a deragatory manner to someone Ya fuckhead! 
      I love em! No really, the cheddar kind and the onion ones are to die for! Low fat too! Can't beat that now can ya? 
      4 people in the last hour hr asked to speak to my supervisor. Interesting!! I think there's something to this... I may track how many people say they are going to write a letter in after talking to me too.  Later....... Upto 7 now requesting my supervisor and 6 people writing a letter!   
      I am going to count how many times today a customer says " I want to talk to your supervisor!". Keep in mind here people this is after they have already talked with two different levels of customer service representatives and they got to me by requesting the highest avail supervisor. Hello dumb ass if you requested the highest available supervisor then I am it and you won't be transferred any further. Heres a news flash for all you would be ladder climbers. Where I work, I am the top rung and those above me don't give a flying hoot about your complaint and arent going to do didley squat  more for you than what I've already told you. MUAHAHAHAHAHAH...........ahhh the power............kind of corrupting yet satisfying! Like David Spade in that commercial where he's the phone operator saying "no, NO, nO, No, oh let me check with my supervisor.............NO! Hahahahaha! 
      In the express need to again put my thoughts out there somewhere I will once again blog. At one time I had my own blog on my own site and all tricked out to my hearts little delight but honestly it took much too long to keep up so I quit. Today I decided to keep it simple and just write. 
      A reference to my favourite webcomic as the title, just to start things off nicely. Anyway, it's acctually the title to my favourite chapter of  urlLink megatokyo  (things change little by little being chapter 2.) This has a certain relevance as it seems to fit well with the way things seem to go for me. Never a huge change all at once, but a cascading sequence of smaller changes that ultimately change more than any single major change could. Well almost, there are some things that aren't as clear as they could be and while things do indeed change little by little, these smaller changes usually can be grouped together and when looked back upon can acctually be seen as a few big changes rather than lots of little changes. In any case, quite a few things have changed for me over the last year, and I'm feeling much better for it. Certainly I'm a much happier person than I was in the past. This is something I'm very, very pleased about...... 
      Right, this is something I've been looking to do for a while, but never had a motivation to. My good friend Laura has just started a blog of her own and this has given me a vague reason to finally start my own. So here we are, my humble beginnings as a blogger. I don't intend for this to be seen by many people, I see it more as a space for me to just ramble on about things that are vaguely important to me....I don't see why they should be to anyone else really. I'll finish this by linking you to Laura's blog:  urlLink http://krystalblog.blogspot.com/  I'll be posting there too, probably more often than here for now atleast. 
       Just saying a quick howdy...    Don't worry Krys, I won't hog your space. Although I totally disagree on the Dr Pepper thing...all Dr Pepper tastes like crap. :p  
        What is it? Why is it?? It made me think as I sat down to drink my can of Pepsi Max... (bought for me by my mum,   I would never buy it by my own choice) 'Maximum taste, No sugar' My arse...  I think, if you were on a diet, you wouldn't be drinking a large amount of fizzy drinks... Full of calories. "Diet ones aren't" I hear you say... Maybe not, but they contain a whole load of fake crap to substitute the sugar, and as a result, taste disgusting. hence the Diet Dr Pepper picture. Dr Pepper is perhaps the greatest drink ever created,  diet  Dr Pepper, tastes like shit. If I was ever on a diet, I just wouldn't bother. Surely if you were serious, you'd be drinking fruit juice, and water. There was even that news report about something in Diet Coke possibly causing cancer, proving the fact it's full of fake crap. A friend of mine (and I hope she won't be offended) drinks diet stuff all the time, she says its so she doesn't get fat or whatever, she's perfectly fine anyway, but what would a can of normal coke do? Seriously? Just drink normal stuff! It tastes so much better and doesn't contain crappy sugar substitutes!  
        Well, my tickets just came through the post for the  urlLink Franz Ferdinand  concert in October! How excited am I?! Not to mention Gordy's coming with me!! Double w00t! Anyway, I'm getting to be a bit of a concert whore, it may not be apparent thanks to the serious lack of concerts but I think it's true. Since going to the  urlLink Space  concert at the  urlLink Academy 3  I've realised that concerts in smaller venues are absolutely brilliant! So no more M.E.N arena for me if I can help it. The past few months I kept checking the updates of  urlLink ticketline  to see if any of the bands I like were playing... But no... And then I check this week and  urlLink Keane  and Franz Ferdinand are on at the  urlLink Apollo ! Unfortunately Keane have sold out, but hey, Franz Ferdinand are far better, and I doubt I could convince Gordy to come all the way down here to see Keane :p    A bit of a gaming session was had today... I've been playing games on and off for a bit now, but not half as much as I used to. Now the  urlLink Gamecube 's in Ryan's room I seem to have decided to play it more. Must be the big TV and surround sound :p I started off with  urlLink Re0  which as I said in an earlier post, I have been playing anyway. From there I progressed to  urlLink Eternal Darkness  and got the past the bit I was stuck at :D Soon I'll have completed that fully :D Then I decided to restart  urlLink Skies Of Arcadia , as Mumbo had been praising it quite a bit the previous day. So there you have it, let's hope my gaming streak continues, I do quite enjoy it :p 
      Dnt u h8 it wen ppl tlk lke ths on frums, e-mals n MSN mssngr? I know I do... Fair enough, in a text message you need to conserve the space you have, and so shorter words are used in order to get what you want to say across. In MSN Messenger and e-mails it's just plain annoying. It really doesn't take long to type things out properly, even for someone who's not an experienced typist, so why don't you do it?? Not only is it annoying to people like me, but it makes you come across as thick in my opinion. The people I know that do it are generally put under the label of 'scally' but some of the people really aren't like that at all, the way they type just makes them seem that way... So please, if you fall into the category of shameless txt speaker, try and do something about it, not just for my sake, but for your own.
        The adverts for it keep coming on and I don't watch much TV, but  urlLink NY-LON  certainly seems like it might be worth a look. I read the feature in The Sun TV Guide aswell and I'm liking the sound of it. It's a love story about two people who meet, but are from different sides of the world. Long distance relationships eh... "If you feel you can't be with anyone else, you  make  it work." commented the female lead... Sounds familiar... Anyway, I at least recognised 2 of the actors; Sooz from As If and the bloke from Teachers. So tomorrow night at 10, Channel 4, I think I'll see if its worth my while...    The  urlLink Olympics  is becoming slightly boring now, what with it just being the track and field events. I personally enjoyed the swimming, and more unusual-type sports. Table tennis. Wow, now that's a game :p I am impressed by that grey-haired bloke though... Jonathan Edwards. Have you seen that guy jump? It's a shame he's retired. He was a great athlete... Just like our very own Paula Radcliffe.   Although I despise running (unlike Gordy...) I really feel for her. In all the interviews I've seen she's broken down in tears. I guess she feels she's let the whole country down :( I don't think she has though. She's still the world record holder and a woman of remarkable endurance who I really admire.  Well my musical listening has stepped down a notch from  urlLink LaunchCast  radio, to the video station they have, as my skips have run out :( Well I guess I could listen to my CDs... It would make sense :p Although I like the randomness that Launch offers. It's changed from  urlLink Linkin Park  - Breaking the Habit to  urlLink The Vines  - Ride. Two pretty good songs. Although I'm sure Gordy wouldn't agree with the first one, even though he's never heard it *rollseyes* :p Keaton Simons now... Who? *skips* ah  urlLink Nickelback  - Figured you out. That's a good song.  Anyway enough about music... I'm really starting to like this blogging malarky and getting the hang of it too :D I might even write again tonight... But we'll see about that. 
      Well here we are, a blog, by me! I'd guess that not  that  many people will read this, but I guess it's partly for my own benefit so I can talk crap without too much criticism. Well I'm currently listening to  urlLink Muse  : Time is running out. A pretty good song 'cos its fairly original in terms of todays music. I've not really done much today... Got up to talk to Gordy, slept some more then got up to make myself a lovely lunch of burger and noodles. mmmmm. Then i decided it was time to face the naked zombies on  urlLink RE0  and managed to pwn them good! Oooo and I did myself a french manicure which I'm quite proud of. Even if I do say so myself.  Anyway, on this fine day I have a topic I wish to talk about. Romance. Good news guys, it really isn't dead. 2 members of the male population have restored my faith (not to mention Gordy but that goes without saying) But one picked a lovely piece of jewellery for his girl *jealous* and the other organised a surprise for his girlfriend consisting of roses and candles. awwwwww.  Well that's me done for today. I'm sure I'll write again soon though. This really is a good idea... 
      In my family practice clinic, I have a lot of good days as my nurse and I sift through the miliau of ambulatory illnesses that cross my path.  Occasionally, we have a day (or a string of days) where we feel like asking, "Do you want fries with that?"  Let me explain.  In this culture of fast food and 7-11s, that has been the mantra of customer service.  People are used to ordering in a loud voice thru a drive through speakerbox.  They are everywhere, pharmacies, banks, dry cleaning, and even the big red drive-thru beer barn on the seedy side of my town.  In the old fashioned world of the office of a family practice doctor, we are still clinging to the exercise of face to face communication.  Most of my patients love this type of interaction, especially the older, retired people who clutch their bags of medication and Medicare cards hoping to win the jackpot of longevity thru pills.    There are a few, however, who make my nurse feel like a waitress and me, a board-certified, yada yada, physician as a short order cook.  Is this really the kind of relationship you want with some people who have the potential to really help you or hurt you?  If I was a lazy person, I could just write out whatever drugs people felt they needed.  In fact, I could just install a vending machine and people would just insert their credit cards and then push a button.  I could be a kazillionaire.  But then, what a waste of education and many years and late nights of studying pharmacology, physiology, biochemistry, and other useless medical school classes it would be.    These fast food medicine consumers will tire of my long explantions about how this particular antibiotic they want (after seeing on that catchy commercial on TV) will not kill the bacteria that is currently infecting their prostate.  They will move on to other doctors, physician assistants, nurse practitioners, urgent care centers, emergency rooms and other providers that will be most happy to give them what they want and supersize their order for only a dollar more. 
						   I am a slow starter, last one to get the CD player type, and I am going for the Blog.  So here goes...  While I was watching the Olympics the other day, one of the trivia facts thrown in my the usually inane sportscasters was the average income in the Ukraine was $76 a month.  That really stuck in my brain and I am not sure that is even right.  But it made me think about how rich materially we Americans are, yet so often we think we lack so much.  A single person making $780 a month in my town qualifies for indigent assistance at our local hospital.  Considering how much medical care can cost, that is probably appropirate.  Ukraines are taxed at 80% and get free health care, but apparently you have to bring your own cotton swabs and gauze.  As I watched more Olympics, I noticed some of the atheletes representing foreign countries were actually American (living here).   I further understood the love/ hate realtionship for Americans around the world.  We are one of the few countries in the world that people want to come to live and work in.  We are not a country that many people leave or that a government has to fence in or shoot at when escaping.  But what I think Americans often need to be reminded of is that material wealth doesn't necessarily promise happiness.  I saw it in the faces of a Ukranian gymnast who did a really great routine, joy.  I just wished that they could have looked more well-nourished like the Americans.  
      As Kahlil Gibran once said in  A Handful of Sand on the Shore  "Progress lies not in enhancing what is, but in advancing toward what will be," and this will be one hell of a year. After sleeping a good 4.5 hours tonight, I awoke at 7:30, in order to get ready for (:0) "Early Drop Off." I loaded the van, a U-haul rental (19.95 per day in-town, plus mileage, mind you) with the items afore-mentioned in my other post. We parked on Wisconsin Ave., right in front of my dorm, with several other vans, pickups, a city bus behind us. After checking in, getting a room key, a cart (our dolly would have done the job, but not as quickly), my father and I finally got up to the thirteenth floor, and looked out at the looming city thought the window aptly placed right in front of the elevator. We opened the door to suite number 1343 and I noticed a rather large room, bigger or the size of my parent’s bedroom, (more dimensions to come). Very nice window again, well air-conditioned, very close to elevator and common room, as well as nice, well-conditioned furniture and bathroom. Everything I'd expect from a former YMCA; for more info see "YMCA" by  The Village People .I dropped my stuff in the corner, noticing that my roommate had already taken one of the closest, the smaller one, and dropped his shit in the opposing corner. He has not been living there, I must have misheard him about moving in on the 22nd, or he meant he would be having the same experience I was having, that other day. I want to add that, while stumbling upon his closet (he had hung his clothes), I noticed most of them were in the size range of small to medium, mostly what I expected: a "Chris sized fellow." After dropping my stuff off, I didn't get much of a chance to check out the dorm, so more info on that tomorrow, but I picked up my ID at the Union, and headed off to the Apple store to get my PowerBook serviced and pick up an Airport Extreme (with newly acquired Edu. discount). We dropped off the van, and then took off to Ikea with Ken, for some extra accessories, and a loft for Ken's room. We picked up a nice stainless steel, or aluminum model (who knows?) and a rug for my cold tiled bathroom. In our efforts we managed to pick up, look around, and check out in about thirty minutes, a new personal record for both of us. However, packing was... more of an ordeal. After finding we had 3 boxes of varying sizes, we ghetto rigged a system of twine, supported by other boxes, and covered with the tarp, further accentuated with massive amounts of twine. This adventure took a grueling thirty minutes, after which we refreshed with two Slurpies(TM) from 7-11. After a 30-minute drive we arrived at Great America, for an afternoon of roller coasters. This seemed like a wonderful opportunity to indulge in some excitement, as it was raining and crowds were small. A few roller coasters, some lines, some walking, squiring a girl in face with water, and several hours later, we found ourselves in the middle of a downpour waiting for the empty Superman ride to startup again. Sadly, A.D.D. got the better of us, and we took off for home, making a short stop to see Snoop Dawg at a local gas station for some refreshments. This was probably the most interesting part of the day, and I must explain it in deep detail. After choosing three items to buy, two energy drinks, and one large bottle water, we took our soon to be beverages to the counter. Here we saw "Snoop Dawg" polishing a silver dollar, "you know, one of the ones before they came out with the Golden ones." He was quite the talkative fellow, explaining he had one for his kid's birthday, and one for his own now. He rung us up for the THREE drinks we had, and my total came up to be ten dollars, and thirty-six cents. This did not ring a bell, until we were well on our way home, as a clear rip-off, and thusly we decided "Snoop" had pulled a quick one on me, distracting me with stories of silver dollars, and soon to be marriages between him and his girlfriend. Though I do not feel dirty for loosing at least 4 dollars, since the experience was memorable. One and half hours later, after enduring horrible rain on the freeway home, as well as speeding truckers doing acrobatic moves on the road, I am here finishing my day telling you this exciting adventure that was, as I mentioned, a great cap-off to the last two days I have had. So.. as Chris mentioned already, I give you the advice of another good man, Thomas Carlyle; "What we become depends on what we read after all of the professors have finished with us. The greatest university of all is a collection of books." And this thing might soon become.. quite the book.
      Well in less than 10 hours I will be in Madison, minus wrestler, which is good, cause it means that I have time to sit down and get my bearings straight before having to deal with him as well.  Well I'm going to probably fall asleep about 4 so that means 4 hours of sleep, I think I might be spending a fair amount of my recent paycheck to keep me awake at work and the hours following, cause who wants to fall asleep their first night in Madison at 9!?  Looks like the site is getting some people looking at it, keep reading, trust me, all three of us will have very interesting stories to contribute as the semester goes on.  Well time to get some sleep before I have to deal with the emotional baggage that my mom is sure to bring tomorrow.
      Ken, where the heck is your roommate parking his car, it's got to be outrageous there for parking.  Because my wrestler is bringing the tv and couch my room's going to feel empty for a couple days, hopefully someone on my floor will have a tv and is moving in early.  Turns out Limita is moving in early so I'm not going to be the only one from west there early, which will be nice as well.  Well time to go spend my mom's money some more probably post more later.
      Hrmm Chris moves in tomorrow, Maciej the day after... then I gotta wait until Friday.  My 'wrastler' isn't moving in until Sunday so I have 2 days to myself.  He's bringing the fridge and his laptop, and of course, his car... because he knows all the hot places around Milwaukee and will definately need it.... you know, since public transportation and a U-pass will not suffice.  Gonna be rough with only one loft though, maybe i'll have to do some convincin'... we'll see how things work out.
      Well... here we are.  	I do "Early Drop Off" on Tuesday, and then move in on Wednesday. "Early Drop Off" is where I get to drop all my furniture off early, so that it is easier to do rather than having to deal with all the crowds on actual move-in. My wrestler is already there, doing ROTC stuff. Hopefully everything will go well, I am all ready to move in with my fridge, TV, and everything else. I think the fridge will be the center-point of my room. All the focus will be around the fridge, and particularly the items inside which will include water, 7-Up (my favorite), as well as lots of salsa for chips, and some fruit to snack on. I'm hoping my wrestler will bring a bunch of vid. games and/or movies. 	I think the worse part about moving away is going to be meeting new people. Not just people, but meeting the type of people you like to hang out with. I don't know we will see. Good luck everyone.  
      I'm in.... move in Friday.... we'll see how this goes :-D
      This is the first post to this blog, I move in in two days, so two days without the wrestler, waiting for ken and maciej to get the invites for the site since I just set it up.
         Rant Number 2 Second day of school Oy, now we start actual keyboarding…what great joy! **coughcough** I really suck at normal keyboarding…It definitely isn’t one of my strong points. I type my own way really. Its sorta mixed up proper typing with index finger typing. You know, where you only use your index fingers to press down every single letter? Haha that’s how I used to type when I didn’t know how to. Well this is really boring… These keyboarding books look cool tho… they are more like notepads for learning how to keyboard correctly. AHHHH this is messing up my normal typing, learning this gay new way of typing…bleah this sucks. I remember learning this in sixth grade with Mr. Donovan… he was nice, but the class sucked. **15 minutes later** OMG I’m going to kill myself because this is so much different from my normal style of typing that its driving me crazy! I suck at the normal style of typing! All we are doing is a sad dad; all lads fall; asl a lass; a jak salad; BLARGH! WHO FREAKING CARES ABOUT A SAD DAD OR A JAK SALAD! WTF IS A JAK SALAD?! I don’t know but its retarded just like these books… I really need to either go outside or get some help. Mental help. :P I can’t wait till lunch, cause I have a yummy sandwich (yummy!) and THE SCHOOL’S COOKIES! Omg those cookies are teh best! THEY R0X325 my 50( 1337 ARE TEH BEST! These cookies are sooooo good. Chocolatey chippy cookies! Yummzors! I think I’m going crazy. Nevermind I AM crazy. I like monkeys. That was random. Haha memories from literature yesterday… "This is Michael Miller my partner, he lives in Randolph in the middle of nowhere, he has 40 pets not including his 49 toads as his pond (yes he counted), he likes to feed house spiders, he used to catch snakes, and he likes to put things into sockets and make them explode!" XD that was hilarious! "This is Nate, he weighs 268 pound, is 6’10’’, and is a beast, an-" "Thank you. Nate, congrats on making a bad impression of yourself on the first day. Your permanent assigned seat will be over there." Hahahaha that was so funny! Well its about time for me to head cause computer class is over… See you all in the asylum!  (haha j/k)
        Hey everyone! I'll be using my blog to post rants I make during computer class at STA! 
      Now with a title like that, I know you, gentle reader, are asking "How can a tax cut that benefitted the rich be progressive?". As it turns out, as long as you do the tax cut correctly, it will benefit everyone and create a more progressive tax structure (the wealthy will pay a higher percentage of the overall amount of income taxes). And it also turns out the the soundbite "Tax Cuts for the Rich" is nothing more than Liberals playing the class envy card yet again.   urlLink CBO: Tax cuts made system more progressive   Liberals like to point out that the tax cuts benefit the wealthy disproportionally in terms of dollars. This is true. In terms of dollars, almost any tax cut will put a lot more dollars in the hands of the top 20% of income earners than it will anyone else. But why is this? It's because the top 20% of income earners who are paying the lion's share of the taxes. According to the  urlLink Congressional Budget Office , the top 20% of income earners pay 78% of the taxes. When you expand that to the top 50% of income earners, the percentage goes up to 96%+! So, yes, tax cuts will end up putting more money in the hands of people who are making the most money.  So given this, how did the Bush tax cuts end up making the system more progressive? Simple, by reducing the tax burden across the board for all income levels, the highest income levels end up paying a larger share, as a percentage of all income tax collected, than do the lower income levels. Let's look at a simplified example:  For each 100 dollars the government collects, let's say the top 20 percent pay $70. The second 20 percent of income earners pay $20, the third 20 percent of income earners pays $7, the fourth 20 percent of income earners pays $3 and the last 20 percent pays $0.  Now the government reduces the top four brackets by $10, $8, $4, and $3 as a tax cut. Now the top 20 percent of income earners will pay $70 - $10 = $60. The second 20 percent will pay $20 - $8 = $12. The third 20 percent of income earners will pay $7 - $4 = $3, the fourth will no longer pay taxes, and those who didn't pay any income taxes before the cut would still not pay any income taxes.  So, before the simplified tax cut example above, the top 20 percent on income earners were paying 70% of all taxes ($70 / $100) and now they're paying 80% of all taxes ($60 / $75). So the tax cut, which benefitted the top 20 percent the most in terms of dollars not taken by the government, is now paying 10% more of the total taxes taken by government.  Yes, tax cuts can result in a more progressive tax system. 
       urlLink Iranian girl is executed for 'Sharp Tongue'   I suppose it's just the society I live in. You know, that right to free speech that so many love to use and abuse. I guess growing up with that right makes this story so much more difficult to understand.   The judge personally pursued Ateqeh’s death sentence, beyond all normal procedures and finally gained the approval of the Supreme Court. After her execution Rezai said her punishment was not execution but he had her executed for her “sharp tongue”.   So this girl committed some kind of crime, which didn't warrant a death sentence, but because she had a "Sharp Tongue", the judge decides she needs to be killed.  You can say what you want about Islam being a religion of peace, but it's actions like this that give Islam a bad name.  
      Where can you find the best cupcake in New York City?  This perennially-important question has plagued me since a friend told me that instead of a cake at her wedding she had cupcakes from The Cupcake Cafe stacked on tiered pedestals. What a cute idea, I thought. Then, I tasted the cupcakes from Cupcake Cafe. They taste like dried-out sponges with tasteless, greasy frosting. One thing that these cupcakes do have going for them--they are beautiful. They come decorated with the most delicate and pretty flowers, all colors and types. But this still does not take away from the fact that they are tasteless and hard in ways that a cupcake should never be.  In another cupcake moment, I saw Carrie and Miranda (a la Sex and the City) gobbling up cupcakes from Magnolia Bakery. They made them look so tasty as they ate them, as they licked the colored frosting from their fingers and practically stuffed the things in their mouths. Now, to taste one of these mini cakes did not give me nearly as much pleasure as they seemed on television (now, isn't that always the case...). I don't know if they use lard or butter in their frosting, but I found these cakes as tasteless as those from Cupcake Cafe. Blah, not worth the trek downtown.  Now, the really delicious cupcakes in my opinion come from Buttercup Bake Shop. For one, the cake is soft, slightly toothsome, and dense, but not hockey-puck-dense. The frosting is clearly made with butter, as is the cake, and the flavors they come in are just divine and oh-so-playful--red velvet, devils food with marshmallow frosting, a lady baltimore with a jewel-like maraschino cherry on top and my favorite--vanilla with chocolate frosting. In a way the cupcakes remind me of cake made from box mix--but only because they are very buttery-tasting and that's what I always loved about those darned Betty Crocker mixes.  There was an article in the New York Times awhile ago in which some man went on a quest to find the perfect cupcake in New York City. I haven't done nearly as extensive research--considering the fact that my research consisted only of eating cupcakes from these 3 establishments. And he deconstructed every cupcake like only the New York Times food writers can. I can't remember what cupcake he deemed the best in the city, but my vote, by far, goes to the Buttercup Bake Shop. YUM! 
      I am intrigued by this whole blog thing. A good friend of mine from way-back-when has a blog, which I read when I can, and I thought: What the hell?! Why not start my own? Too few people get to hear what I think about all day--food.  Beginnings is an appropriate first post, as it points to the beginning of this blog and also to the beginning of my honest and dedicated effort to become a chef. I've gotten myself a job as a stage, or kitchen intern, in a local restaurant in Essex County, NJ and am starting to formulate some kind of a plan as to how I will reach my end goal, well, my two end goals--chefdom and opening my own restaurant.  I will report on my progress and most likely talk and talk and talk about restaurants, great meals, and why I think everyone should start their meals with a glass of champagne!  Cheers! 
      Well the first thing would have to be check out this blog I just stumbled onto  urlLink http://toomadawg.blogspot.com/  Its really a cool one I enjoyed reading most of it.  Oh yea and the other thing was why I'm pissed today. As some of my friends may know my website was shutdown and deleted today for 'Supposedly putting illegal files on my site' Or some crap like that. It pisses me off so much. I had nothing wrong or illegal on my site, I was stealing bandwith from noone and had permission to use all of the files on it. So I guess this is also a warning Blog, the warning being   IF YOU ARE GOING TO MAKE A WEBSITE DO NOT USE TRIPOD OR ANY OF ITS AFFILIATE SITES THEY WILL SCREW YOU!         Ok that being said I think I can finally move on without these outbursts anymore SCREW TRIPOD! *Ahem* Sorry about that. Anyway as I was saying TRIPOD'S GAY! I am completely fine. I need to go cry now...   
      WHOA! I can't believe its finally happening, THE NEW EPISODES OF FAMILY GUY ARE COMING! Man I must have no life, but I love that show, I watch it all the time. I bought the DVD's too.  Here's A picture Of one of the DVD covers. If you haven't seen this show before you gotta watch it! It's really a funny show. Plus it has a talking dog!  Anyone reading this listen to Howard Stern? I do! He's wicked funny, I guess i must be entertained really easily but somehow everything is funny. I dont get why. Am i dumb for being able to find something funny about almost anything? They do say ignorance is bliss, and maybe im so ignorant it just doesnt matter. Hell, no-one may ever read what i'm writing right now but thats ok, I just like to write not only because its something to do, but its also fun. Reading and writing are fun things to do. Alot of people think its stupid to like to read but i dont. I actually go around reading other people's Blogs all the time. If you read around you can find some pretty cool one's out there. Some are happy, funny one's others are more sad, no matter what your preferance there's always a book, blog, or magazine you can pick up and read. So why don't you? Do you not like to read? I bet you if your reading this right now, you probably like reading (Or your one of my friends I forced Into reading this) either way you probably like to read. Have you read the Harry Potter books? Alot of people have. Everyone's read a book before that they liked even a little I bet. Even people I know who only read sports books must  like them. Sometimes I think people pretend they dont like to read because its to nerdy, or its embarasing in front of people. So what? Your reading, if worst come to worst lie about why you are, Examples could include such things as "I Have a book report due in like to days I haven't even Started" Or If the people are in your class: "The teacher gave me extra work cuz I failed a test." Or you could just say you're bored. See how hard was that? Not very right? So even if you like to read but people think its stupid there's always a way to do it. You could even send all of your time waiting here for me to post another blog, hint hint. 
      Thats all this blog is about... stuff wow, how many words is that? 13 Cool! Now its even more. Hm... I guess I decided to make a blog and I guess I have No Idea what to write about.  Well I have my own website [shamelessPlug]  urlLink http://tortilla_turtle.tripod.com/  [/shamelessplug] And My "friend" Matt has a website also,  urlLink http://www.zizablaz.0catch.com/ .  Ok...Um Oh yea Matt came over today, and we played Magic The Gathering, My squirrel Deck kicked his Goblins a**'s but his slivers beat it after. Im sad, 8-(. We, or mostly HE made a "flash" movie also its on his website you can check it out  DONT DO IT  Its Neo cutting Osama Bin Laden Into 2 pieces, it has blood and crap soo thats really cool i guess.  I think i'm allowed to edit this later so i can write more afterwards.  Wow I guess I did end up editing this thing after all. Oh yea This is what I wanted to say:  A little About Me ~With Links To Related stuff 1. My Favorite Shows 1. Chappelles Show ~ urlLink http://www.comedycentral.com/tv_shows/chappellesshow/  2. Simpsons ~ urlLink http://www.thesimpsons.com/  3. Family Guy ~ urlLink http://www.fox.com/familyguy/  4. Trading Spouses ~ urlLink http://www.fox.com/tradingspouses/  5. Law And Order SVU ~ urlLink http://www.nbc.com/Law_&amp;_Order:_Special_Victims_Unit/index.html   2. My Favorite Movies 1. UHF ~ urlLink http://www.imdb.com/title/tt0098546/  2. Cant really Think of any others right now hahaah.  3. Favorite Songs 1. Freak-A-Leak ~Petey Pablo ~ urlLink http://www.peteypablo.com/  2. I Got You Babe ~Sonny And Cher ~ urlLink http://www.classicbands.com/sonnycher.html  3. Yeah! ~Usher Ft. Lil' Jon and Ludacris ~ urlLink http://www.usherworld.com/  4. Welcome Back ~Mase ~www.mtv.com/bands/az/mase/artist.jhtml 5. I Feel So Alive ~P.O.D. ~www.payableondeath.com/  4. Favorite Things 1.Anything Japanese, Anime Manga etc... 2. My Ipod 8-) 3. Music 4. Computer 5. Anyone Who'll Talk To Me!  Wowza this 1 entry got big fast. Hm... How can I increase the size more? Lol.  Links:  urlLink http://ppi.searchy.net/  ~Penpal International, I'm on there, become my penpal and you'll be my best friend, Search for Andrew.    
      It is unfathomable to me that he doesn't see that what he did when he came back from Vietnam directly betrayed the very men he served with. He also betrayed all the over 2 million other men that served their country honorably and bravely in Vietnam. Apparently people don't understand that we were not only fighting in Vietnam to help the South Vietnamese people who were being slaughtered daily fight, the North Vietnamese Communists.  People we were fighting against the growing spread of Communism! John Kerry’s hero JFK would have been ashamed of him. JFK knew that the communists needed to be stopped, that why when they put missiles within 100 miles from our country he stood up to them. They knew that he would have sent our nuclear missals right up the asses of everyone in Cuba, and Russia. Unlike JFK, John Kerry is a traitor! In a very direct way, John Kerry helped The Communist North Vietnamese /Russia by accusing all of our military of committing war crimes! John Kerry is Trash!!! How can he honestly say that he didn't know that what he said and did would be used against our American POW's, and would be used to try and break the will of our soldiers, if he couldn’t see that, then he is  urlLink UNFIT FOR COMMAND!    
       Check this out   urlLink http://drudgereport.com/dnc98.htm   (Developing)  
       Here is the deal, 99% of the world is envious of the USA. I guess different people express their feelings in different ways. Take tonight for example, the immature spectators of the men’s High Bar Competition were booing when American  urlLink Paul Hamm  what about to start his routine. He kept his chin, preformed great, and won a silver medal. I am proud of him. Apparently booing Americans is a common thing this year in the Olympics. My question to the world is what is your problem? Does it burn you that we are the greatest country in the world? That we have the more medals, (66 as of 8-23-04) than any other country. Deal with it. We are blessed in this country because we have worked and fought for it. We work harder, we play harder, we move faster, and we live better than any other country in the world. I don't feel guilty about it I embrace it and am proud of my nations heritage. Through our Nations great history, we have never been afraid to stand up for what we believe. Whether it is popular or not. We will fight and we will die for what we believe in. I guess in the end (as far as the Olympics go anyways) all that I really care about is that we beat the China/Cuba and all the other commie bastards who are competing in the Olympics. Oh yeah and France, Germany, and Russia too not because of any other reason than they are a bunch of Bitches...... Peace, BJ  
       Grade 8 was the beginning of a new life 4 me, going to high school meeting new ppl, making new friends.  At first i thought wow i cant do this i was nervous and scared as hell but now im going in to grade 11 at Reynolds...and everythings awsome  i wouldnt want it ne other way. i have a group of really close friends, we are there 4 eachother no matter wut happens. This past year (Grade10) was one of the hardest but best years. I went through alot of friend problems with them cutting themselves and doing way to much drugs. then came boyfriends kelsey got WILL but cheated on him with Nick now that her and will broke up nick and her have been 2gether 4 it seems like 4ever. Then there was me and Reid everything was going great , so i thought we broke up in like 2 weeks.well thats when i started to realize drugs hehe...well mostly weed..i guess u can say i went though a little stage...ok a long stage that just ended...i did shurms and weed and hash oh im sick of it  Well like a month later i liked his best friend Doug so much he was so amazing..he apartenly liked me too and tahna tried smuch to get us 2gether. it almost work when he kissed me but that doesnt matter now cuz sumthung happend and it didnt work out. i was upset etc...then as summer started me and reid started agian that last about a month and a half...but was kinda a bad realtiongship cuz we never really saw eachother...but there was this guy named Jake who is an amazing guy hes funny smart and loves country music the thing is bout him he doesnt like ppl so i couldnt take him ne where if we ever went out unless he changed 4 me. but thats not likely   but he listens to me and makes me laugh hes so awsome..i only wish he would change a bit,   now that dougs with tiff on and off 4 like ever its hard cuz i still really really have feelings 4 him.. i dont even know y i mean he says he loves tiff so much and i believe him and all but then y would he kiss me in the mcdonalds play place...but oh well i guess we were both upset cuz me and reid just broke up and he was having problems with tiff...so i guess we can just say that never happend...even tho i really wish it would...then theres levi ohhhhh little levi....hes so adorable and in the summer at lanas movie night there was alot of kissing at that party lets just say...even tho i was with reid i never saw him so i didnt think it was wrong...i guess it was i dunno...but 4 some strange reason levi could be a good bf to have around but i dunno im just really confused and wish doug and tiff would make up there mind on if they want to be 2gether or not. Thats not my bussniess tho so it doesnt matter...I cant wait till school starts. Grade 11 wow a few more years then im outty!  
      College is great, i started it off with 2d design, and that was boring for the first day. the only thing wrong with college, is that the damn materials are too damn exspencive!! and its ART!! baaaah! 
        Sleep:    Noun1. a. A natural periodic state of rest for the mind and body, in which the eyes usually close and consciousness is completely or partially lost, so that there is a decrease in bodily movement and responsiveness to external stimuli. During sleep the brain in humans and other mammals undergoes a characteristic cycle of brain-wave activity that includes intervals of dreaming. b. A period of this form of rest. c. A state of inactivity resembling or suggesting sleep; unconsciousness, dormancy, hibernation, or death. now think about what i just said to you, and do one of the about, and its not hibernation! ZE END!! 
      You know what? there is plenty to hate in the world, and i don't mean dislike with a passion, i mean   HATE!    Not usually one of those feelings   I   would have but, bear with me.. #1 lack of sleep, my least favorite thing in the world, i hate it, its the most annoying thing when you wake up like ten minutes into a good dream to go to the bathroom, and then you just cant get back to sleep, and when you do get to sleep, about 20 minutes later, its time to get up, woopdy-fuckin-do!! that sux! #2 getting up for work, i had to do that all summer, it was annoying, i dont like getting up in the mornings to begin with, i mean college is one thing, but honestly, this is some shit... #3 work it self, damn it all to hell, i need the money, but you know what?! i dont need that damn experience of it, just give me money!! PLEASE!! im a starving(well not really but you get my point) artist thats in college, and im LAZY! #4 PAIN, i hate it.. period. people say that pain is just weakness leaving the body, well fuck people, that must mean that im losing like 1000 weaknesses a day, is that like gaining weight? cause for me, thats really fucking hard!(although i do weigh like 178lbs, but thats not the point) #5 OMG! religion, its just annoying in the first place, i know i've said this before, but honestly, its just a(no offence ment by this, nothin against religious people....yet again, bear with me, im tired) psycho-samatic disorder, it needs to die, and we are the ones who need to kill it... #6 finally, people that dont wanna know other peoples oppinion,  OPINIONS ARE LIKE ASHOLES, EVERYONE HAS ONE, AND THEY ALL STINK, GET THE FUCK OVER IT ALREADY!!! ...ok that is all  ZE END!! 
						   > > Subject: Story in Tampa newspaper Will we still be the Country of choice and still beAmerica if we continue to make the changes forced on us by the people fromother countries that came to live in America because it is the Country of Choice?????? Think about it . .  All I have to say is, when will they do somethingabout MY RIGHTS? I celebrate Christmas, but because it isn't celebrated by everyone, we can no longer say Merry Christmas. Now it has to be Season's Greetings. It's not Christmas vacation, it's Winter Break. Isn't it amazing how this winter break ALWAYS occurs over the Christmas holiday? We've gone so far the other way, bent over backwards to not offend anyone, that I am now being offended. But it seems that no one has a problem with that. This says it all!  > > This is an editorial written by American citizen, published in a Tampa newspaper He did quite a job; didn't he? Read on, please! IMMIGRANTS, NOT AMERICANS, MUST ADAPT.  I am tired of this nation worrying about whether we are offending some individual or their culture. Since the terrorist attacks on Sept. 11,we have experienced a surge in patriotism by the majorityof Americans. However, the dust from the attacks had barely settled when the "politically correct! " crowd began complaining about the possibility that our patriotism was offending others.  I am not against immigration, nor do I hold a grudge against anyone who is seeking a better life by coming to America. Our population is almost entirely made up of descendants of immigrants. However, there are a few things that those who have recently come to our country, and apparently some born here, need to understand. This idea of America being a multicultural community has served only to dilute our sovereignty and ournational identity. As Americans, we have our own culture, ourown society, our own language and our own lifestyle.This culture has been developed over centuries of struggles, trials, andvictories by millions of men and women who have sought freedom.  We speak ENGLISH, not Spanish, Portuguese, Arabic, Ch! inese, Japanese, Russian, or any other language.Therefore, if you wish to become part of our society, learn the language!  "In God We Trust" is our national motto. This is notsome Christian, right wing, political slogan.. We adopted this motto because Christian men and women, on Christian principles, founded this nation, and this is clearly documented.  It is certainly appropriate to display it on the walls of our schools. If God offends you, then I suggest you consider another part of the world as your new home, because God is part of our culture. If Stars and Stripes offend you, or you don't like Uncle Sam, then you should seriously consider a move to another part of this planet. We are happy with our culture and have no desire to change, and we really don't care how you did things where you came from. This is  OUR COUNTRY, our land, and our lifestyle. Our First Amendment gives every citizen the right to express his opi! nion and we will allow you every opportunity to do so. But once you are done complaining, whining, and griping about our flag our pledge, our national motto, or our way of life, I highly encourage you take advantage of one other great American freedom,  THE RIGHT TO LEAVE.  If you agree -- pass this along; if you don't agree -- delete it! AMEN    And my response:  I disagree strongly that one of the issues about this particular piece isn't "Is it a newspaper." Because, quite frankly, everyone who's ever read a newspaper knows it isn't. You can look at it and see that it was never in an editorial page. By saying "Newspaper story" you're attempting to give the opinion false credibility. It's no different than saying "From the Bible" or "From a speech in the State Senate." That's the first thing that really caught my eye. Everyone knows it's not a newspaper, but people will still pretend it is and that if has no effect on the validity of the arguments if it's not. If you start off with a lie, generally speaking, not going to continue on with logic and truth.  The second thing is the deffinition of the word sovreign. Maybe some of you who read it, and agreed, don't know what sovreign means. It means, more or less, "Supreme Authority within a sphere." Which is to say an entity that has self power. Should this wave of politically correct immigrants, who are typically quite poor and not all that involved in democracy on a lobby/radifying level, somehow convince Alaksa to declare it's independance THAT would challenge the sovereign state of America. Short of that, these saves of deep pocketed, lawyer hiring, bill changing immigrants are mearly changing things in a way that the author dosen't like. But maybe they didn't know what the word meant, so I won't hold it against them. The author has a very good point about Christmas and Political correctness. You can tell this because he speaks in Caps, and only intelligent things are said in caps. > > IMMIGRANTS,> > NOT AMERICANS,> > MUST ADAPT.  Indeed. And, in fact, should an Immigrant not want to learn English, they will not get most jobs. If an Immigrant breaks a civil oridence, you are free to call the police on them and have them fined or jailed, which will be done. If an Immigrant dosen't want to celebrate Christmas, say, they have their own stupid beliefs at the time like, say, something to do with candles and the faith of their people that's been around for 5,000 years, well sucks to them! Actually I did once have the good fortune to say "Merry Christmas!" to an Orthodox Jew in Kansas City. He smiled back and said "And Hapy Chanuanka to you!" That freaking immigrant. Practicing his own beliefs and equating them to mine. How dare he.  I would just like to ask the author two questions about the bits about Patriotism and the flag. One, what does it have to do with immigrants? Short of saying "Please stop rounding up, interning and spying on Arabs" I haven't heard a thing about the politically correct people attempting to defend the unwashed hordes that stem like a tide from other countries. The other rant that I'm confused about is the flag. Have you ever heard anyone, anyone at all, ever complain about anyone's nationial flag? Short of people pointing and laughing, or even admiring other's flags duing the Olympics, have you ever heard anyone talk about a flag? Ever? I haven't, besides maybe Eddie Izzard, and even that's sketchy. So then I assume the author is talking about the confederate flag that's still a symbol for some. Unfortunatly you have to get through the heads of a few people on this one. The Confederate flag is a symbol. It's not inheriently evil, it dosen't make you want to go out and hunt down black people. It does not contain the spirit of pissed off plantation owners. Should it be hurled back in time to, say, the battle of Hastings, the Vikings groups there would not look at it and say "You know what I'd like right about now? Some slaves." It's a Symbol. It means one thing to some people, they call it "Pride in heritage." It means another thing to others people, they call it "We just had a black man lynched here last year, and that there flag reminds us that it happened more often." But these DAMN IMMIGRANTS are ruining this flag. Somehow. I couldn't quite make the leap.  The "In God we Trust" bit. Melody, wisely, cut off an end part of the E-mail that states, so very well, what this E-mail is all about:> > If you agree -- pass this along;> > if you don't agree -- delete it!> > > > AMEN  Interesting final bit, yeah? Agree or shut it, and by the way, God is on our side. A message that has never been used by religion before. Ever. At all. A "Conspiracy" is a "Meeting of minds." In our terms, as modern Americans its "People who have more power than we like, doing things with said power that we don't agree with." "In God we Trust" is a Christian Slogan, and it hasn't been around since 1776. It wasn't around in the Civil War, it wasn't around in WWI or WWII. It was added in the 1950's. It is 30 years younger than the amendment that gives women the right to vote. If you REALLY think the founding fathers wanted "In God we Trust" on our coins, or our schools, you think they would have asked for it. I mean, most of them could read, and it's not like they were shy about asking for what they wanted. I find it very difficult to believe that Geroge Washington, a devote Christian, whom killed so many people for so many years in new and exciting ways would somehow forget to mention that he wanted God on the currency, in the schools and that he forgot the amendment "The Seperation of Church and State {unless the secular people act like a bunch of wankers and get on the religious people's nerves, in which case it's time to go to plan B}"  My favorite part about this rant about...immigrants and all the harm they are doing....is how he ends the Christian argument with "This is clearly founded." Which it's not, and as someone who's paid FAR too much for the knowledge of colonial American literature I can tell you that EVERYONE hated the Puritans. That Washington, devote as he was, would not allow Puritans into his command. Also, he loved the word "Zealot." But maybe he hasn't had six hours of mind numbingly boring Colonial literature, which makes him smarter to me, and he didn't know this. That's fair, no one in America is expected to know their own history besides the bits where people blew up. But ending a religious argument with "This is clearly stated" is like me saying "Because that's the way it was." or "So there!" or "Because you do!" Not terribly reasoned.  The Author then seems to forget what he was talking about and goes into the Stars and Stripes bit. Appearantly Immigrants hate stars and stripes. It boils their blood. They just sit around in whatever country they come from saying "I'd go to American, if it wern't for those freaking Stripes. And stars! 50? Who the hell do they think they are?" The author then makes the point that these "Immigrants" should get used to our culture. Which confuses the hell out of me. Didn't he just complain about how they've changed our culture? Maybe I misread. I thought the point of this was that "Immigrants" have changed our society. Maybe he should be the one who should have to accept the change, since they've appearntly won the battles.  I've also, for a matter of record, never heard of America's "Nationial Motto." We have a Nationial Motto? I know that people like to use the phrases "With Liberty and Justice for All" and "Out of many, one." Are people complaining about this? News to me. Maybe someone here can tell me any occurence of someone stating that our flag and our motto are bad. The Pledge certainly stirs up controversy every couple of...minutes with this kind person. The Pledge didn't, I repeat, did not contain the words "Under God" when it was first composed. That was also added in the 1950's. People, who don't quite like being under God, or over God, or inside God, or various descriptions of where they are in relation to God, don't think that they should have their secular state fused with God. But they don't really get all that militant about it, and until we are no longer facing a faceless enemy, it won't change, so he can rest easy on that one.  In conclusion: Not a newspaper story, but if you like it, that lie won't matter to you.  This isn't about Immigrants, but pretending it is helps the author make their points across without meeting any thought patterns of resistance from those that agree. Clever tactic, might want to re-evaluate your reading habbits if you didn't pick up on this as not being about immigrants.  You are free to celebrate Christmas, but if you are in a group situation, like a pagent, you may have to compromise. This isn't a infringement on your freedom, it's called the social contract.  Of the sparse amount of Immigrants I have met, attended class with, shaken their hand and talked to from the very few countries of Cuba, Chad, England, Ireland, Saudi Arabia, Pakistan, Canada, Niger and Peru none of them, not one, has ever made any claim about "Out of Many, One" or the flag or Christmas. Even if they had, unless they got a state to claim it's indepndence, didn't weaken or sovereign nature. Their opinions, the opinions of people who don't care about the difference between "I want to wish you a Merry Christmas" and "I want to wish you Happy Holidays" dosen't dilute the spirit, potency or unity of a nation. It just chaff's people who think their way is right.  The poster of this board lied twice, in two very clever ways. One claming that it was a Nespaper, and the other but omitting the real guts of this piece at the end. If you got as bored reading this as I imagine you would it was, simply: If you agree -- pass this along; if you don't agree -- delete it! AMEN. Sort of ruins the flow once you realize that it's a God Nut who isn't actually saying anything about immigrants and is just trying to either get you to agree or shut up, dosen't it?  Also, as a side note, Americans don't like the French. That's okay, they are used to it. But anyway, France is overwhelmingly Catholic, upwards of 90%. Their divorce and marriage laws are inaccordence with the Church. They are forcing religion on their schools and banning religious freedom in their country via the taking of religious symbols, namely Islamic clothing, away from people. They may, very soon, add God as a part of their daily School service. So my question is, do you want to be a REAL American, or do you want to be lke ths author and MOVE TO FRANCE!!!!! See what I did there? I made it so it's my way or you agree to be French and used capital letters and over puncuation.  PPS. Damn you Immigrants! You're diluting our sovereign nation! Why don't you go back to Puerto Rico! What? We own Puerto Rico. Oh that's so weird because we just played them in the Olympics. Yeah. Yeah we lost. What? Common wealth? What? Viginia is too? Interesting.   
						   i get to go to practice tonite. im gonna call eryn later and sing to her, but i dont know what yet. im thinking maybe i dont wanna miss a thing, but ill prolly come up with something better by then. My head hurts so bad, and its my fault because i kissed her when she had a cold. Thats what happens, people tell me not to do stuff, but do i listen? No. Why? Because i have the attention span of a squirrell. i hope we get to the end of the show tonite. speaking of which, i have to get going! my head hurts so fucking bad. i think i might barf, which will be cool, because ill barf all over jarrod. he'd enjoy it. school sucked today, just like any other day. it wasnt as bad as my orange days, becuase i had "a" lunch and i had mr roach in class today and he told the funniest joke. but i pulled an eryn and forgot it in favor of a story which eventually unfolded into this update. oh, im going to be posting from my previous journal, so dont freak out if you see an entry on here from June. YOURE NOT TRAVELLING BACKWARD IN TIME! i have to go now. wow, saying goodbye to this blog is almost as hard as saying goodbye to eryn. im not gonna kiss the computer, tho. i dont love it as much as i love eryn, and itll prolly give me a bug too.  Quinn  
						   Why did I have to be your mistake? Put together with pieces of me and you... You had to change me into something you could never be, I'm not me anymore, I'm just like you, the sad thing is that you knew...  I was never a person in the first place, Just like the rest, there was nothing inside me but dust... You saw potential for an evil heir to your throne, I knew there was something more than hate, but now I'm not so sure just what to trust...  They all point fingers at me and blame, They're just like you, thinking they're perfect... I can see through them, like you saw through me, Just like me, they're all a defect...  Why did I have to be your mistake? Why did you have to make me aware? I wish sometimes that I couldn't see, Cause when I look in the mirror, you're there...  
        This course is designed as a workshop for graduate students and teachers who wish to incorporate the use of technology to the teaching of a foreign language.  
            Preparation and mediation of Chat session       A chat session is synchronous, in other words «live » so the structure, duration and objectives of a chat session should be determined before it occurs. A (tutor) should have the responsiblity of mediation  in order to keep track of the speed of the exchanges, students’ participation and the outcome of the task.    Preparation of Chat session  Arrange a date, time, duration of the sessions, inform participants and ivite them to confirm their attendance. Limit the number of participants with regards to the type of activity ; for e.g. create several chat rooms of groups of 5 to 6 students so they can actively exchange information and work collaboratively. The following is important : ·         Plan the introduction of the participants at the beginning of the session ·         Introduce the objectives, topics and decisions to make before the session starts ·         Identify the different stages of the topics (topics, sub-topics, synthesis, etc..) ·         Plan the end of the session (a few minutes) Send a Chat session plan beforehand, by e-mail.   Mediation of a Chat session  The « mediator »  conducts the session and helps participants achieve their objectives. He/she facilates participation, stimulates interaction while taking into account students socio-affective idiosynchracies. To facilitates and maintain students’ interests  ·         Give instructions before the session starts ( topic intro)  : Rote participation during formal discussions – make sure everyone has a go Ask participants to tell when they decide to leave or end the conversation Tell the participant to respect the planned structure of the session Tell the participants to respect other participants’s ideas and general rules of conduct Ensure, at the beginning of the session, that  everyone understands the targeted topics and objectives, the structure of the session and adjust information if need be Facilitate exchanges with brief interventions Give students time to familarise with the technology Ask brief questions at the beginning of the session to break the ice Don’t put too much emphasis on the quality of language used and the objectives, the session structure since student participation is most important Allow everyone to express themselves and if necessary, demand that each individual particpate ; ensure that active students allow shy students to also have a go at sharing their ideas Contact individually and quickly a student who threatens to interfere with the session objectives or does not respect the rules of conduct Summarize at each objective stage of the process, the outcome of the objectives and waht should be the next step Regulary step in to make a short summary with the most important points discussed or ask additional questions if need be Introduce opposite opinions to facilitate the discussion et particpation Name a conversation leader if need be and rote leadership Encourage metacommunication (how the session is going, how the participant are actually participating, etc..) Beware with humour since it can easily become sarcasm in multicultural chat session.    What is the appropriate language register in a chat session ?    Write clear and simple sentences Keep sentences short and close to the topic Use precise but simple verbs in the active voice if possible Use open questions to obtain open answers Use smileys ;-) to give a tone to the intervention Intensify exchanges with the use of acronyms (BRB, ASAP) Bare in mind participants’ affective behaviour? Be there at all times and read all interventions Respect everyone’s difference, show that you are behind everyone, particulary those who need more attention that others Help students develop a positive perception of their participation with postivie retroactive remarks on their production Some students will be afraid of making fools of themselves with bad content, spelling or grammar mistakes. Individual encouragement during the session is useful Know your students invite them to introduce themselves in the beginning, or make a short message about themselves before sending it Do not hesitate to make contact with students individually if they ask a question or make a comment so the others can get on with the session  Keep a low profile unless the session does not go as planned Try to find acronyms in the language you teach… as well to give your students they will love it ! (lol)  
      I hate expectations. Today, in first period, we played Jeopardy! (a cheap version that tests nothing, nor that expects the students to even hear the entire question) Anyway, last time around-we play before each test-I answered almost EVERY question for my team, thus earning all ten of us a +1 on our test. (I chose not to take the point, but oh well.)  So today, the same people who received points for the (continuous) raising of my hand last week, EXPECTED my to repeat. What they didn't know, the poor souls, was that I entered the classroom committed NOT to answer any questions. In fact, I was hoping to be the speaker so it would be obvious that I couldn't answer the questions.  But I failed. I wasn't speaker so I just sat and listened. My team, which since the teacher can't count had a 10-8 advantage in bodies, NEVER answered any questions. So what do they do when the score is 320 to ZERO? They snap at me. ME! Me who knew the answer to all of the questions that went right over their heads.  So I answered questions. A few at first, and more as the game continued. I botched one, but I must admit I don't give a damn. Ultimately, my team AND I brought the score up to 470-530. Then the teacher announced that he didn't think we were going to have time, so he didn't bother to offer a sixth category to choose from "Jacksonisism." (Yes, that IS supposed to be "Jacksonianism")  So after that we go into FINAL JEOPARDY! 650-670. The question involves treaties of the 1800's in America. Instead of consulting the team though, the TEAM sticks me with the pen and paper and has me right down the answer. I know it (The Treaty of Guadalupe-Hidalgo, and the Gadsen Purchase) but I toy with the idea of botching it, knowing that the other team will bid to win. I didn't, but wouldn't it have been fun?  So now, I failed myself. The day started out depressing and by first period was a crap shot.     I HATE EXPECTATIONS! THEY ARE THE DEVIL!     Additionally, in Earth Science, a 7th grade level science course mandated in NC high schools, I learned that in order to do well, I should forget everything I learned in my advanced classes-biology and chemistry-since "we don't care about orbitals everyday."  Not that it matters, I am listening to Oasis' "Wonderfall" and it's not bad.  Today was, without a doubt, a    gray    balloon... 
      I have failed myself...again.  I succumbed to the pressures of my contemporaries and have created this-this monstrosity of which I had for so long been so adamantly opposed.  I have nothing intelligent to say, no deep thoughts, and no greater meaning.  I have failed!  I therefore doubt this will ever be updated, however I, at this moment in which I declare my hate for blogs, find myself rejecting food, a hobby, to type.  Shit, I've lost my mind!  This will, then, be for me. All poor souls who stumble upon this may be better off looking away- far, far, FAR away- deep into the shoes of the most isolated of clowns. It will be a study; a more independent view of myself. I may try my damnedest to be honest but since that is what I scope to learn I may struggle.  Again I say, If you have found this random, assorted, vile collage of thoughts, RUN!!! If you care to read on, do so, it obviously doesn't bother me.  Today, in case you want to know, my poor soul, would have been a    yellow    balloon... 
						   What's really important? What's it all about, this Hellenism thing?  Hellenic Wiccans Hellenic Reconstructionists Hellenic Traditionalists: a term in flux, characterized by detractors in various ways (which we should really put to bed).  HT can also be used in contrast with HR in the sense of reconstructionism being an activity.  Hellenion: an organization of which I am a member and in which I am taking on more responsibility. Hellenion is suffering from some identity issues which should be resolved in order for the organization to move forward in a well-founded way.  Has been called "too liberal", "too conservative", and "trying to be all things to all people". The last accusation should be better stated:  1. Define the term. 2. How does it apply to Hellenion? 3. Even if it's true and applies to us, is it really all that bad?  OSNT has been called too inaccurate to recommend to newbies. Perhaps a good way to put this to bed is to recruit the detractors, asking them to detail the complaints they have with the book.  Hellenic Wicca: By all reputable accounts, a 20th-century innovation. It seems based on WMT, masonry, etc. There's fair enough reason to see Wicca as an off-shoot of WMT with a polytheistic wrapper of sorts. Most Wicca do not appear to be "hard polytheists", but influenced by Jung, Joseph Campbell, etc. and see deity as archetype. Some of the particulars of Wiccan symbolism may stem from ancient Hellenic mystics, though. Wiccans who attempt to incorporate Hellenic deities as archetypes aren't going to be very popular with Recons, but we can benefit some of the more polytheistic Wiccans by providing research that can inform them.  Eclectics vs. dedicants of specific traditions: Eclectics may choose bits and pieces from traditions that seem to fit well together in their eyes. When eclectics are contrasted with recons, the recon will tend to lean toward a more holistic approach to a given cultural framework. Eclectics may be more likely to change fairly radically in view and practice over time, whereas recons will endeavor to become progressively more consistent in dealing with the specified cultural framework as more is learned and new research sheds new light on the subject matter.  Hellenic recons have a lot more to work with than some other recons who reconstruct cultures in which there was less literacy or from which less material survives today for various reasons.  We have to make decisions about whether we're going to reconstruct within our own cultural framework (animal sacrifice, women's rights, and pederasty being hot button points). Assuming we're going to do this, we have to deal with other issues, such as researching the ancient culture really well to transcend what Wittgenstein might call a "language game" separating ourselves from the ancient culture we're reconstructing.  Language Games: Even under the best of circumstances (face-to-face conversation between people sharing common language and culture), language games limit communication. The greater the divide between individuals (due to language, culture, etc.), the more severe the limitations placed upon communication, and the more challenging the reconstruction process. For instance, there are serious differences between an English-speaking 21st-century North American and an Attic-speaking Athenian from the era of Socrates, which present situations with which we simply need to come to terms. Most HR's I have encountered so far seem to have a basic respect for this.  Adopting antagonistic stances further complicates the process of communicating and reconstructing effectively.  Once one states a position, one becomes open to criticism and "Socratic" questioning. It might be tempting to turn the tables on the accusers, but this is generally not a good idea. Readers and viewers of this sort of thing can generally see the pettiness and egocentrism of it. A better solution is to extend xenia and hospitality to our detractors as much as possible, not as a strategy but to reinforce community. We're an amazingly small minority and should come together as opposed to further driving one another away. Differences need not imply divisiveness. A communitarian and inclusive approach, founded on mutual respect and humility before the gods is the way to go.  We need to beef up our programs such as Hymnodia and publish lots of practical material for people to use in their own study and practice. If our publications are criticized, we should accept the criticism. If the criticism is spurious, accept it as so and move on, but if there's something in it we can use to improve our work, let's be grateful for it and use it to enhance the integrity of our efforts.  More on culture: We have to be honest with ourselves about some of the realities we're dealing with. It is astonishingly difficult to reproduce an ancient culture with great precision, which does not imply that the effort lacks merit.  Some people rely more or less heavily on UPG, which is perfectly fine but presents challenges when it comes to persuading others of one's findings. If you don't present your findings as founded on good research, you need to rely on something else in argumentation, such as results of some kind.  Not everyone is going to go for your approach, no matter which approach you employ. Even if every single Recon on the planet does agree with you, we're a startlingly small fraction of the world's population. So ultimately I think it's really important to invest your energies and efforts in something important to you and in which you find satisfaction. 
						   Recons have a fascinating tendency to focus on minutia (which is one of those words that doesn't look right when you see how you've spelled it, but passes the dictionary.com test). This can be both great and positively miserable (maybe simultaneously, but misery has a way of making it hard to see greatness).  Some of what's great about it is that we can sometimes make really neat discoveries in the process of picking little crap apart, which can then be passed on to those who have lives.  Some of what's miserable about it is that one can fail to "see the forest for the trees" as the old saying goes.  For instance, I recently read a great deal of discussion about libation, which is a well-loved topic for me. (See the meaning of the term  sponde  for more on why.) In the discussion, I saw the libation process picked apart, but much more emphasis seemed to be placed on how a certain author had  really screwed up  by describing the libation process in a manner that didn't set well with some of the people involved in the discussion.  One simple fact of the matter is that libations (like many other facets of ancient Hellenic religious practice) were actually quite varied in detail depending on who was libating under what circumstances. To cite Burkert's  Greek Religion  (which may be over-hyped, but is still a darn good book), p. 71:   When Achilles sends Patroclus out to battle, he takes from his chest the cup from which he alone drinks, cleans it, washes his hands, and draws the wine; then, stepping into the court, he pours out the wine and, looking up to the sky, prays for the victory and safe return of his friend.      Libation could be quite simple. Period.       Elaborate rites were carried out, as were simple, spontaneous acts of devotion, prayer, desperation, etc.  But (and seriously check this out), even the ancient Hellenes practiced Reconstructionism! I kid you not, and cite Burkert again (p. 107):    The meal in the sanctuary may be marked as extraordinary when, in contrast to normal civilization, the ancient way of life is imitated: a bed of twigs,  stibas , takes the place of seats or banqueting couches, and the house is replaced by an improvisational hut,  skene  -- misleadingly translated as tent. The twigs on which one sits assume a symbolic character which varies according to deity and festival: pine or willow for the Thesmophoria, and wild olive branches in Olympia.    So.....  Should we have Recon banquets in which we reconstruct the ancient Hellenic practice of reconstructing even more ancient practices?  And did any ancients ever come down hard on other ancients who used the wrong twigs for a given festival?        
						   I'm a bit concerned about some of the divisions I see within Hellenic polytheism these days.  It's not the divisions themselves which concern me, because variation is good. We shouldn't be overspecialized, but should represent the diversity present within the community.  Hellenic polytheism includes, but isn't limited to Hellenion and other "Hellenic Reconstructionist" groups and individuals, Hellenic wiccans, people devoted to Hellenic deities but not all that concerned with reconstructionism, a "group" (for lack of a better word) called "Hellenic Traditionalists" and more.  What  does  concern me is what seems like divisive behavior driving potential wedges between us all in ways that aren't necessarily healthy or helpful. I'm talking about antagonistic behavior, of which any of us can be guilty from time to time, but which I've been witnessing more than I feel comfortable with here lately.  Drew Campbell's book is not beyond criticism, but it's also far from worthless. I've seen Hellenion called too liberal, too conservative, and that it tries to be all things to all people, and the simple fact is that these can not all be objectively true at the same time. People make statements reflecting their subjective impressions, and those statements are objectified (sometimes by the speaker, and sometimes by offended readers/listeners).  Can't we all try to get along?  Since the  very first day  that sponde.com came into being, I've tried to get people from various camps to contribute articles, hymns, and pretty much  anything  else. But so far, almost every word of content on the site has come from members of Hellenion, the organization that everyone seems to love to hate. Does this mean that only Hellenion members are publishing things of value? I'd hesitate to go that far, but I would much rather be able to offer a definite  NO .  I'm not sure I have one simple solution to this problem, but I do think that we'd be better off if we poured more of this energy into actual Hellenic polytheism. Isn't that something we can agree on enough to put all this other stuff to bed?  
						   So, I'm replying to Kyrene.  Don't want to keep doing this anonymously.....  Says here you can have an account in just 3 minutes! Woot!  So, now it appears I've got another blog.  Thanks, Kyrene.....  I blame YOU!  ;)  
      Hey all, I hit the streets today in search of a job.  I would like some cash flow, seeing that I spend alot I should provide my own means of income.  Had all my classes today, my english teacher looked over my transcript and said I might be able to Graduate by January.  Hmm...I guess I have to burden myself with work and school.  I don't mind, I need to do something someday for whatever reason right?  Of course.  Met some..."interesting" people today during lunch, feels better to not be a social outcast now.  Well, less so at least.  I'm currently getting a set ready for my new clay movie, but I need R.T. *Lindsey* to help me with a script.  Quite frankly I don't beleive I will be able to commit much time to the upcoming ones with school and possibly a job, but don't be concerned, it'll be great, but it'll take longer.                                                                       -Hush 
      Hello all,                    Hush has dug himself into a mighty big hole.  Oh well, today I left around 6:50 to catch the bus to my new school, woo indeed.  I waited there and I almost thought I was in the wrong spot, but around 7:10 people started to show up, I got on the bus and blah blah blah, then at like the third stop some teens with their kids got on the bus, I really didn't know what to make of this, seeing as they didn't have those at Aragon.  The commute from San Mateo to San Bruno is about an hour long, makes for some good cd listenin to time.  I got off the bus and went to the registration tables.  The sign behind it said  new students, please report the to the library,  you always gotta do what a sign tells you to do right?  slowly the room started to fill up with people, i prefered sitting alone in my little corner, but was joined by some thuggish mexicans,  good thing i knew some of them or I would have been rather uncomfortable.  Well we did the normal "ok we're gonna go around the room and you're gonna say your name and what school you came from and then a goal"  Well I said my info, *name withheld*, from Aragon and I wanna be a mechanic.  Not that anyone was listening of course, I could have very well said screw you all, I come from downtown and I wanna be a porn star.  You know that feeling where if you look at someone for a second it seems the turn their head the other way? Like if they were just looking at you?  I got that for the longest time today, more on that later.  We went on break and I talked to Kim and Patrick for awhile, so far they seem to be the only people I can hang out with at the moment.  Kim is a cutie, and Patrick is...well...a big big idiot, but thats fine.  Both can be a little anoyying and immature at times, but I can't make a big deal out of that cause hey, I do that alot as well.  So we got back in and we do this thing where, if we agree with the statement we have to move to either side of the library, I feel like I'm being watched again and I look out the corner of my eye and this beautiful girl says hi and waves at me,  for some reason I thought to ignore it, i bet she was waving at the guy next to me, oh how wrong I was.  The lunch bell sounds and Kim wants to get something to eat so I lend her a couple bucks and she gives me a chain that I wear around my right arm now, standin in line still at this moment and that girl comes up to me and says Hey Nick *oh yeah, my name's Nick* Gee, I guess someone was listening to who I was and what I wanted to be.  So by the time I turned around I was dumb struck in awe.  I beleive I said "uhh...Hello there..." and she asked if I remembered her.  I dont remember my own name at this point and she asks if I know her? Outlandish.  She says she went to school with me at McKinley and her name is Amber, now I start regaining sense of my limbs and I say "Amber...Puh?" and she bursts out Press.  Shit damn, I know her.  I had a major crush on her back in 4th grade, and now she is in super model status, I cannot beleive she spoke to me.  Absolutely stunning....more over, she re-introduced me to Tanisha, I haven't seen them since 4th grade.  Its amazing what time can do to people, it hit everyone but me of course, everything skips me.  Everything after that point is dull, school gets out at 1:20, busses show up around 1:25, and I get off the bus at 2:11.  I talked to everyone about how Aragon was, some people were shocked that I don't go there anymore, and some just forgot (IE: David).  More or less, I might become something one day now that I can get some credits and a job.  At the current time I like someone, no one YOU would know, but sadly, the feeling is never returned, or even a hint of it.  This isn't good cause I am semi-dating someone now.  I really wish I knew what to do...grrr.  Well I'm off to go create more lovely creations...you know...the clay toon type.  See ya.                                                                                        -Hush 
       Dan- I'd fuck *Courtney*, but she's a cockteaser, so i wouldn't trust her   Me- Lol Zack still likes me, that bugs me   Dan- How?   Me- comes up to me and "tries" to flirt and stuff. was that guy snoring?????   Dan- yeah LOL.    Me- this skool is gay and i eat a lot   Dan- yeah u do fat ass JUST KIDDING   Me- ur so mean! i have no ass   Dan- lol u have more ass then me!   Me- My ass brings all of the boys to the yard, and they're like its better than your's.. damn right i could teach you but i have to charge   Dan- my dingaling brings all the girls to the yard... and they're like it's better then your's... damn right it's better then yours, i could teach you, but shit I'll just give it to u for free. lol. I want to go to ms. tarzan and pull on her tiger skin!   Me- her thong is cheetah print! ewww~ when i told Shaho that he was like THAT'S FUCKING SICK! You like it????    Dan- anyways, NO! I DON'T LIKE IT!   Me- her thong's all messed up! someone's been shopping at the salvation army!   Dan- yeah no shit, it's all torn up and stuff   Me- my thong says margarita and i got it from CR, not the donation place.   Dan- LEMME SEE!!! i'd show u my undies but im not wearing any. lol   Me- THAT IS JUST FREAKIN SICK. how u like it daddy, how u like it daddy... lol. freek-a-leek   Dan- I FUCKIN LOVE IT MOMMY! take it off! lol   Me- TELL ASH TO HER'S OFF, HELL NO. NOT MINE. I HAVE A BF THANK YOU.   Dan- I'm not wearing any. there's only one way to find out.....   Me- Dan, get a fucking life. STOP FUCKING VIBRATING MY CHAIR!!!   Dan- lol. meet me in the bath. in 5. JK   Me- Oh jesus   Dan- I'm not jesus, but i can be one   Me- Go screw urself   Dan- that tarzan looks goofy and she's fucking ugly   Me- awww.  that's mean!  
       Me- Hey I'm bored, i writing to u, cuz no one else in this class is awake   Xak- ya me too. we should make out :)    Me- ZACK!!!! see! come on now! you now I'm with my bf   Xak- ok well let's strip then.   Me- I do that on sundays JK   Xak- invite me over sometimes   Me- YEAH RIGHT   Xak- We should play strip-tac-toe   Me- Let's not   Xak- ok, when r u gonna dump him   Me- prolly never   Xak- I'm a reall man   Me- yeah, a real man whore   Xak- psha! one of these days... just one of these days. u'll find out.   Me- And one of these days Eric will kick your sorry ass  
       Hi *GooGoo!   Hi how are you val. Ur a freakin alchy   I’m so not. I like how mr. a sys ur name. JK so wuts up   Nothing, u   What does it look like? Jk do we get daily planners here. He we get to take da new SAT   We usually do, but we would have had it by now. What new sat?   We have a new form. Renzo’s nuts.   Renzo’s nuts is our new form. That makes sense   Hahaha. I think *Allen looks like a blind dude. Nice cover for the food.   HAHAHA, me too, thank you. U know ur hungary   Hungary is a country, yeah I’m starving. Who the heck voted him as prez?   I didn’t, explain ur weekend.   Went over at my friend’s, got Jack’s and came back home, hid the bottle in my dresser, my mom found it. I got grounded.   Wow, fun weekend. Do u drink a lot.   No   …… do u have diarrhea?   NO! stop im gonna put tarantula on ur bed   I hate spiders so much. Ill shit on your pillowcase   Yeah well, I’ll piss on your face   I’ll fart in your mouth   I’ll ***in your mouth JUST KIDDING   Your dirty   And you like X-Tina   I’ll giz in your ass   Ur fuckin nasty! Skanky bastard   Hey you started it   Not the giz! Eww! I have to pee   You said *** go pee then   Which one should I do, JK   Well if you can get urself off that much then it’s your choice. Go pee or clog it with a finger.  
        First of all, ALL real names have been replaced by other names. I will not tell you who the notes are from and who wrote them (well, most of all of them are between me and my friends).  
       Holy fuckin shit. Today went completely nuts. First thing in the morning Zack asked me if I wanted to fuck with him. Second hour, Renzo burst out water from his mouth cuz I made him laugh and I went to the bathroom and my ass almost fell in the fuckin toilet. I didn't eat my freakin lunch cuz I had to take my English pre-test. I dropped out of AP class- didn't do my summer reading. I'M SUCH A REBEL. AHAHAAHAH. Anyway, in English class, Mizz Wenz started singing kumbaya and we started reading our stories in the dark, which was pretty cool, cept some kid threw up. Oh! and stupid Drew told me "You're so sexy I'm gonna fuck you upside down". HE IS SO FREAKIN UGLY. And in Dance, which is my last class, Mizz Garner told me that I have an excellent hip rotation and pointe. COOL COOL. Oh, never will I go to the bathroom ever again.  
      Here's a little list of awesome quotes that I've heard. 4 5h1zz13. (You know you wish you could write in Internet-ese like that!) Oh, and in order to increase the humor and the "non-sequitor-ness" of this list, I didn't put a reason for why that quote was said, unless it was  really  required to get it. Like,  really really  required.  1. What country is your guy from? (Michael) 2. When I tried to e-mail Michael it said user... dead... or something... (Jason) 3. My brother is about to carve a bar of soap with a pocket knife... and I don't know why. (Dave) 4. And one year you were a witch, and it was itchy! (Michael's mom) 5. Other people may consider other people, but I sure don't! (Michael) 6. Its got little people legs for fingers! (Dave) 7. Some guy's gettin' pummeled by old ladies!... Hey, he's got a broken arm. (Dave) 8. But, ya' know, being around weird people can make you hungry. (Dave) 9. Oh look, a wild strawberry vine! (Random lady at Japanese garden, as she points to a grape vine) 10. Unless you get the chunk kind. Then it would be chunky... and sticky. (Dave, about Peanut Butter) 11. That monkey looks like a Japanese monkey. (Michael) 12. You're mean, Mr. Funnypants! (Andrew) 13. Hey, It's Coombsy-Woombsy! HI COOMBSY-WOOMBSY!!! (Derek) 14. STOP BOOPING ME!!! (Derek) 15. 'Cause he was... uh, fascist. Wait, oh, you mean he was Communist? Same thing, right? (Some Stupid kid) 16. What? Anacondas are  real ? I thought it was just a movie! (Some other stupid kid) 17. I shall vomit in 13 minutes! (Sarah) 18. My fan says "Don't move" really loudly before I go to bed. (Sarah) 19. Well, I'm  confidant  that I've made mistakes, I just can't remember them right now. (G.W. Bush) 20. Oh, cool! It's poopy colored! (Sarah)  
      Hello all. This is my blog. Instead of use it as just a play-by-play of my how my day went, I'll probably use it as a place to dump my opinions. This is my little corner of the internet, so to speak. And I'll use it to show the world my superiority. Because no matter what you say, I'm better than all of you.  *cough* Anyway....  So, yeah, I hope you all enjoy reading this. If you don't, oh well, it's obviously all your fault.  Well, I'll cya next post. 
       Today was a regular school day. I got to school and survived through Mr.Perez going on about Jewish law. Then I went to Web Design and watched a pretty interesting video on the history of the internet. After a short break I showed up for Biology and did really good on our quiz. Thats when things started going down hill. When I got into fourth period I had a really bad headache. Then at lunch by the time i got my food it was time to go to class. Spanish and Algebra were easy. Then came AVID. I had to listen to my new AVID teacher talk about how things are going to be different this year. We've been going over this for the past four days. It's getting pretty old. Well after that I came home did my homework and started on this. Thats about everything that happened to me today.  
       Today was actually a pretty good day for me. I did well on my Biology quiz and was great during Spanish. I guess i got enough sleep last night. I was pretty tired. When I woke up this morning i wasnt very crabby about waking up at 6:30. Today my Web Design teacher (Mr.Briggs) assigned us a project. We have to keep a blog for three days and then email the address to him so he can see how it's going. My Bio teacher has to be the most boring man alive. He wont look at anyone when he is talking and his voice is monotone. He told us today that one of his hobbies is to go to southern California to catch spiders to keep in the class room. He also told us that his job before he was a teacher was to go through a jar of goop takeing out all the fish larva and fish eggs. he seemed pretty proud of it. I think it was pretty pathetic. Oh well thats all that happened to me today.  
       Today started like anyother monday. I woke up crabby becuse I didnt get to sleep until about12:00. I know that doesnt seem late but I need about 9 hours of sleep in order to be in a good mood. When I got to school my I heard an announcement that we had to meet in the gym at fourth period to listen to our new vice principal ramble on and on about all the new rules. Then when I got to seventh period my class got in an argument with our teacher about how to organize our binders. After I got home I did my homework and then BBQed some hamburgers for dinner. Now I'm starting a blog for the first time.  
       My boyfriend is acting werid, my parents won't let me call him.. They think that I am crazy for dating someone shorter and younger than I am. But, he is only a few months behind me. I don't understand why they do this. I don't understand why they hate him, they haven't met him at all. No one in my family has. They tell me not to judge a book by it's cover, but isn't what they are doing here? I know that I am not the only one to feel this way. Many girls my age do. But, my boyfriend and I are really in love you see.. And, no one can stop that. No one. Not you.. Not my parents. No one but me can break our relationship.. No one at all..                 ~P6EvilSquirell~                        
         Hi. Again.     My name is Millers Rule The Court. As you can see, I love the millers. A lot. But, that isn't why I am writing to Blog Spot for the second time today. It is because Of a little problem I have with my Boyfriend and my parents. They want me to dump him because of the Phone Bill, but it isn't my fault he lives in Anderson, and it isn't his either. I could really use   someones   help about know. Please give me some advice.  ~MillersRuletheCourt~     
       Hi ya'll. My name is MILLERS RULE THE COURT. Duh.  But, anyway. If ya'll hate Harry Potter, you seriously need to IM me (Instant Message) or E-mail me. We have tons to talk about. But, all I want to say is, ya'll who spend all day and all night on the computer, need to play some B-Ball Basketball. It is good for you, and is very healthy. Basketball is so much fun. And, I should know. I play basketball in five different leagues... And, I am a varsity player for my Jr. High School. But, I am a big fan of the Noblesville, Millers. And, of course, my boyfriends football team. Except, he hasn't told me the name of his team. I know it is Anderson something. I love Chicago. and, Detriot. Chicago because it has so many good places to eat like Sluggers, and Gino's East!!. And, Wrigleyville is awsome!! CHICAGO RULZ!! Detriot rockz because it just does, home of the Pistions, Lions, Tigers, and Red Wings ya'll. And, the Green Lanturn is so good. They have tons of good pizza, and free popcorn. And, of course Detriot is the home OF THAT MOTOWN SOUND. If ya'll are my Daddy's age, and don't like Motown you SUCK BIG TIME.. MOTOWN RULES!!!! Somkey Robinson, Temptaions, Jackson 5, Supremes, Four Tops, Countours, Stevie Wonder, Jimmy Ruffin, ARetha Franklin, Marvin Gaye, David Ruffin, Gladys Knight and the Pips, Diane Ross, Mary Wells, and Edwin Starr. They all rock. Espeacilly, the TEMPTAIONS. My Girl, Stay, Ain't to Proud to Beg. OMFG. I love them. Well, tlak to ya'll lata.  ~Millers Rule the Court~ 
      It's not easy to describe yourself in a few hundred words. It's even harder to do it in 25, at least judging from the Web personals I'm constantly encouraged to read. Aren't we all sensitive, and funny? Don't we  all  want someone who will share our love of motorcycles, or corgis, or rugby? Haven't we  all  been there before and haven't we all made the same commitment not to play those games, or  not  to let manipulative people take advantage of our good nature?  But this isn't a personal ad, this is my blog. So, it's different, and I'm obviously more interesting and original than the people who post all those personals. Unlike all the other bloggers springing up like mushrooms after a summer rain,  I'm  a keen observer of the human condition.  I've  thought about writing for years.  I'm  married, thirtysomething, live in a nice house in the Connecticut suburbs.  I  do arcane work for a technology services company. See how different? Maybe not so much. Even my name is fairly popular: Googling me turns up a Congressman, a TV producer, a jazzman, a comic book character, a TV doc and many many more  I like to read, and my wife and I belong to a book club. One of the things I hope to put on this blog is my post-book-club reviews of the books we read. I also like movies, and I sometimes see really interesting movies that come to me from Netflix. I like running and hiking and stuff like that (and getting caught in the rain...), and about a year ago I started rowing on a Concept II rowing ergometer. I was an exchange student 20 years ago, and now I go back to France every chance I get.  We're getting there, but does any of that really tell who I am? I grew up in the Unitarian Church, but I've never had particularly strong religious feelings. I'm a Democrat, because there isn't really a further-left alternative that I can take seriously. I think I would be a Social Democrat, or even a Green, if I had the opportunity, but here in the US of A, those parties just seem too silly. I was in the army reserve once, during the first Gulf War, but I never went anywhere or did anything like fighting. Thank the Lord.  I've got a couple of college degrees, and I don't know if I'll ever finish the third one or not.  That's enough of an answer to get started. Maybe if I stick with this, I'll discover more.   
      Everybody else has one. All the cool kids are doing it. I triple dog dare you. It's so easy, even my kid has one. He gets like a thousand readers a day.  Where's the outrage? Why don't they cover the things I want to read about? If the campaign only listened to me, I just know they'd win.  Maybe someday I'll write a short story, or even a novel. That's funny, you should write it down. Yeah, in college, some, but not really anymore. See now, that, that, that would be a good movie. Johnny Depp would play Al, and maybe Geena Davis could be Gloria.  I still have to work all day, and I already have too many hobbies, but every single thing I've said so far rings true to me on some level. So, here's my blog. I hope you enjoy it, but mostly I hope I enjoy it. 
         There are several things in existence that are not as important as they seem, work is one of them, what would happen if you got up from your chair and head to your vehicle., will the world collapse?, no. Will your Boss commit suicide?,no.    Then why bother making things for others to steal your ideas?, A few hours ago my boss asks me to develop a new project in relation to fixed assets, (which i alredy had started by the way), she tells me she alredy started one, but she does not want to show it to me because she wants to see if i have the "right" ideas. What the hell is that supposed to mean? -Oh, its fine Alex, i just want to steal your thoughts, thats all!. Obviously my boss will never say that., but that doesnt mean it didnt pass through her mind.  Now, will i be stupid enough to develop my personal project and lend it to her so she can take the best of my ideas and in to her own work?, i dont think so.  Why is it, that everybody always tries to take advantage of you, cuz even your grandmother will try it, in one point of your existence.  When i started at this job about 2 months ago, i thanked God because i finally had a boss that cared about me and wanted me to grow, oh yeah?, wanted me to make her grow., now thats more like it.  I need to go deeper in the human psyche, because being the bitch that i am i cant seem to understand sometimes "rational" behaviours. Please tell me if you find this reasonable.....cuz i honestly dont   
       Why is it that one day you think you are the most important person in the world, and suddenly something or somebody comes and squashes you like the hiddeous bug that you are?    Saturday Morning, attending my choir sessions. I go in as the Latino Sarah Brightman, thinking that i have it all, that i am the envy of all the other girls in the room because my voice is so damn good, thinking that i rule my existence for once., and what happens?, Jenny is what happens,. oh her little angelical blond hair, her lovely petite complexion, and her gorgeous 2004 european style vehicle., honestly she sings like shit, but everybody in the choir likes her, why?, oh i will tell you, because she's pretty and sweet and femenine and innocent, and his dad has like tons of cash. Just tell me, did i miss something?, why is it that money and looks matter so much?. Why cant somebody be treated by the way they are, or the witts they have?, or the talents they posess?, this is not something unusual in my life., this is my daily struggle., this is not a lovely thing for you to happen., its what i have to live each and everyday.  Now im no supermodel, i know my looks are not that good, im chubby, im latin, and sometimes im a bit annoying, but im not shamu, i dont have 3 legs or i dont know, whatever the hell bothers people who tend to prejudge others.,why the hell does it matter so much how i dress, if i have a new hip hairstyle, or if i starve myself to death just to look the way britney "airhead"spears looks like. I'm a sensitive person, it affects me everytime people dont give me credit because of the way i look. I have struggled since my teenage years to do what i wanted to do, to feel good with myself., but honestly, it seemed utopic., always begging for people to accept me the way i was. I used to say, is it me?, or this stupid prep school im in. My parents didnt care to listen that i was having purgatory at school hours, that every recess was hell, and that my class mates where infernal spawns.  Then it came to be, that some of my so called friends listened to me (singing obviously) and voila, i became a minor celebrity, used only in contests as a puppet for them to win trophies., once the contest was off., so was my peaceful coexistence in school., it was back again to the spitting, name calling, backstabbing days . It is obvious to say that i hated myself more than they hated me. How couldnt i?, everyone was making fun of me, even at my place, where my brothers called me names too., so why not make fun of me as well. So, entering high school i became, the "funny-chubby" girl. I had everyone always enjoying a good laugh, but honestly i couldnt say if they were laughing with me or laughing at me.  Now, one day i realized i was getting better at singing, and with that i realized i COULD have friends, people who i could be with, people that admired me and liked me for what i was, not how much my daddy gave me, or which car did i have. Honestly, my happiness didnt last much, it took me 7 years but i realized my confindent and supporting friends were backstabbing bitches as well., so, off you go, through the road, alone again.  In that time, i managed to find me a guy who loved me for what i was, but i hated myself so much that i blew it all up. I was always putting him down, not giving him credit for the things he did, taking him for granted., i did exactly what everybody had done with me. Now how did i became the monster i was running from?. It was only matter of time that i became this icy person that nobody loved, that nobody seemed to care about.  Time passed by, and i suddenly was a young professionist trying to earn myself a living, but all the good oportunities where given to the pretty executive looking girls (who by the way were total bimbos) and they are now earning almost thrice as much as i make, why?, because of those delicate long legs that men drool about. IM PREPARED, IM CAPABLE, IM SMART, BUT ITS BETTER TO HAVE LOOKS THAN WITTS AINT IT?  On my next phase i resented God, i started to blame him for all that i had suffered, who else could be responsible for all my years of misery but him. It took me a while but i could finally see that, he wasnt the one who did this to me, I WAS!. So i tried to give the first steps in loving myself: diets, exercise, shrinks., nothing worked. I think maybe i wasnt giving 100% on improving the new me., but maybe it wasnt so easy after all.  Im still suffering lots of the things that happened to me in the past, i hate every pretty girl i meet, why?, because they have something i dont, they can take away everything i wish for, with just one little blink of her lovely eyes. Unfair aint it, to be left aside for someone prettier. But now i think this way, i must have something she doesnt, or maybe she will suffer things i wont even know they exist. But its hard trying to imagine them on difficult situations when they get everything so easily.  "I think im a bit better than yeasterday", thats what i tell myself everyday when i wake up in the morning , and i try not to think to much in all the things i could have done as a teen, or the things im missing right now as a young adult, i just try to take one step at a time., and i tell myself "every day that passes by is one day less in hell" . I just hope maybe one day missery will stop, i just hope its not when i die. 
      I’m so excited! Yesterday I rode a horse! Yes, me of little faith in big animals actually got onto and STEERED a huge horse! It all happened because Daniel has made a friend at work, Jarod. Jarod used to be a professional jockey and together with his girlfriend own a huge (and I mean HUGE) horse named Bobby. When Daniel came home yesterday he asked me if Lachlan and myself would like to go and see the horse, perhaps even get Lachlan to have a ride. I was surprised at how big horses actually are. Bobby is taller than I am and his eyes are like big saucers either side of his head. I patted him cautiously but each time Bobby moved, I moved – about a foot backwards. Lachlan went for a few laps with Daniel holding onto him and Jarod steering Bobby from the front. It took only a few seconds before Lachlan felt right at home on top of the beast and decided he wanted to go for 5 trots around the ring. After Lachlan finished, Jarod asked me if I would like to have a go. I said yes before my brain had a chance to remind me that heights are not a strong point of mine. Daniel helped me onto Bobby and as I held on for dear life, Jarod led the horse slowly around the area. There was another rider in the exercise area with us, and she rode next to me. I think it was her that suggested I try steering Bobby. I SHAT my pants!!!! "You want me to steer the horse?" I said, all shocked and awed. "Yeah, its easy, just pretend like it’s a go cart and pull slightly on the side in the direction you want him to go" said Jarod and Miss calmly rides a horse. "Um, ok" I said, real convincingly. So off I went, almost steering Bobby into the other girl’s horse a few times, but other than that I did pretty well. " Hey Dan, what do you think? Pretty good for her first time on a horse!" said Jarod. I rode around once steering Bobby all on my own until he decided that he wanted to be in front of the other horse and started to speed up. "Um is the horse going FASTER??" I said, trying hard not to squeal but failing dismally. So that ended my ride of Bobby the horse. Daniel also had a turn, but almost steered poor Bobby into a fence so he lasted a big 20 seconds before asking to get off – right. Now. We watched Jarod take him for a gallop around the paddock and of course, he made it look so easy. His dog ran along behind him excitedly and as Daniel said, it was a real ‘Aussie’ sight. So now I’m thinking that I would like to learn how to ride a horse and one-day own one. Daniel new that was going to happen so he asked Jarod earlier in the day how much it cost’s to keep a horse so that he could tell me there was no way I can get one. Oh well, I will always have Bobby. 
      Lachlan asked me this morning why it is that he is not allowed to play with guns. I said simply, "Guns are not toys, they kill people" Then I had a think about it. I hadn’t realised that I was like that. It had just happened over the years that I never brought my son a plastic water gun or light up battery operated machine gun. I feel really good. My son has now gone to Pre School and passed on this bit of little mummy wisdom to his friends. " I’m not allowed to play with guns, because they kill people and it’s not fun to pretend to kill people, my Mum said so" Wow. I’m so FREAKING chuffed. It really has made me wonder at the power us parents have to mould our children into the people we want them to be. I want my son to value the earth, understand his and others rights, be tolerant of differences and above all, respect all human life. And today my little guy has learnt that not even pretending to kill is acceptable in our home. Guns in reality are awful things designed to end life and maim. There was no other purpose for the invention of guns and there is no other reason why they are still manufactured and sold around the world. They are made to murder. Just ask my 4-year-old. 
      Little Fella's words of wisdom - "Grandma's and Grandpa's have no teeth." 
      Hi! well after many months of debating the worthiness of having my own little piece of web to call my own, ive finally taken the plunge and created a blog! YAY FOR ME! So who am I? Where did I come from? Why do I rant? Why do I rave? All will be revealed over time in this little spot of mine.  Today my son Lachlan is at pre school having his first ever school pictures taken. He has a new haircut and spiffy little outfit on and as he informed me this morning, he actually looks like Spiderman. I was under the impression that Spiderman wore a red and black body suit but, heh, what do I know! Apparently Lachlan has been watching the  other  version of the movie where Toby Mcquire decides that he looks a little gay in his hero outfit and chooses to instead go to the little fella's section in Kmart and buy a check shirt and jeans. Or maybe, this is what Spiderman wears to school photo day! Lachlan, my little hero.  Speaking of men in tights, My brother in law has become a festering, jelly like, lump on my couch. He came over for a visit about 2000 years ago and just hasnt left. He sits and sits and SITS - occasionally moving to pee or eat. I am starting to fear coming home from work and finding him fossilised, like petrified wood, in an eternal position of unemployed slackness on our couch.  Wayne, please leave.   
         I have been trying so hard to create, to write, to express my feelings on paper once more, but the words are stuck in the back of my mind, yearning to be freed, this endless madess around me, I keep it all within.  there is so much termoil inside my brain. it is hard to concentrate on just one thing  no happiness, no possitive thoughts in my mind all I wish is to lay down and die, I asked the doctors to help me so, but they just signed some papers and sent me home I am worthless to all around me. all I wanted was to set my pain free. feel like I am normal and not just a fool wanting to take my life so cold and cruel. I see my pills apon a shelf, I see a blade to cut myself. not knowing which way to turn. I wait it out with sadness and hurt. every one saying that it's all ok. but what do they know. they don't know my pain. the torture, the sorrow. felt each passing day. I just want it all to go away. lay down and die is my one true wish, but I will fail no matter I am just a bitch. ruining everyones life around me I need to go away, just need to leave but there is no place that cares for me. I am just another file apon the shelf, will they finally get the clue if I kill myself I don't want to really take my life, just some one to listen and know this is no lie. maybe I should give it one more try fuck that shit, I will live, no matter how hard I try sometimes it's hard to resist, all this pain, sorrow, frustration. why bother with this world and wait for tomorrow. fuck this life and all involved. no one cares no one cares at all. they just want me to live to cook clean and care for the kids. I don't even like the kids anymore, they don't care, no one does. why the hell am I wasting my time. when I should consintrate on how to die.  I go on living everyday just sitting and waiting for this pain to go away, but it never does and never will. until my breathe become silent and still. I have begged for help and been turn away. no more reason to see another day. lost in the darkness of my mind I am begining to run out of time. they don't need me, they never will even after my breathe is silent and still they will continue to live life live life well without me around to make it hell.. they will be happy, like they should but will never see I did the best I could I tried to stay strong and fight my inner demons but I lost again now my mind is screaming, telling me to end it all and close the doors down this dark narrow hall.    
         THE ABUSER                       I can still hear her cries within the wind       and feel her tears in the rain       a terrible memory still haunts me       a terrible memory of what he did              I could hear the beats of his strong hands       and I saw the blood that followed       all I could do was stand and stare       as I quietly hid in shadows              sometimes I would run and hide        to somewhere where I felt safe       to escape from my mother's frightful screams       and away from her beated face              I have seen the abuser       and the damage he had done       every misuser       is like the setting sun.        
         Well I don't really know what to write... hmmm...   I guess I could start of with what I'm doing huh... I guess I got the idea from my good bud Steve Dykstra. At camp he wrote down his Blogspot address and I've been kinda reading it since then. I always get these online diary things and kinda end up forgetting about them a month later. I usually end up writing pages and pages of almost nothingness and bore people. Cept usually they don't find our I run one of these things. So it doesn't bother me. I might end up giving Alisa the link but that's about it I think.      What's the point of these things anyway? Why do I enjoy writing in them so much? Umm... well doctors always tell me keep a diary... Maybe this should become my diary... maybe not... I have one at   urlLink  http://www.livejournal.com    but this one's kinda cool... I can put pictures up! I kinda like this.... livejournal is a little boring... So yeah that's it for now I'm off to bed I think... bubbyes    
        I'm confused...   How many times have I said that lol.... But this is a new confusion....   So I'm taking a lot of Math, Physics, and Computer Sciences in school... along with the manditory Religion, English, and my absolute must of Photography this year. My goal since about grade 8 has been to go into programming as a career, simply because I've seen how much money successfull programmers make. My dad completely convinced me that if I want a relaxed lifestyle (relaxed, according to his definition, means not to be worried about financial things...), then I should do something that has a good income. His friend at the time was, well still is, a programmer running his own business at home. I think he does SAP, security systems most likely. They live well. Financially. Since we as a family don't have it too great when it comes to money, my dad always says "Everything you've ever wanted... you can have with this career." Plus, there's a big demand for programmers apparently, and on top of it all, it's something I enjoy and apparently I'm good at it.    But it's not convincing me to make a living out of it...   Lately I've been thinking of doing something else with my life other than being a computer geek. I've talked to a number of people who are in their University/College studies, or have just finished... I found a lot of people are doing their ECE's and then some are going from there to Psychology... so they'll be doing Child Psychology. That's something I've always been into... but I don't have the mental or emotional strength to do that.    Then there are my musician friends. Some of my friends are studying Music in they Post-Secondary and go from there. One of my friends took it a step further and went to Ministry with his music....   Another thing that I'd love to do, or have a great interest in. Ministry. I was talking to Jamie about TACF and the Toronto School of Ministry. He studied Song Writing and some other music courses I guess, and he recorded the most amazing CD last year! Basically he went all out on Worship and he is loving every minute of it. When we talked about Ministry at camp he told me he thinks I'd fit right in at the Ministry School he went to. I'm kinda looking into it right now. But I'm not sure what I'll do when I get there. I don't know if I want to be a pastor... what else is there to do then? I could do Worship, make a musical life for God... how does that sound? Oh man.   So I kinda just told my mom about Ministry and she doesn't sound too happy with it... The Pastor dude at our school, Mr. Adams, he used to be an Engineer. Then he got "The Call" and went into Ministry, teaching at our school kinda thing.    Man I need more time to think....   
       Hey whats happening, this shit is totally deticated to drugs in any way, shape, or form. Any kind of drugs can be discussed and you can just give tips on how to enjoy your favorite drugs. So, to start the intergalactic spaciness here's a little tip on how to liquify weed.       Making drinkable marijuana or (Green Dragon): Green Dragon is an alcohol/THC based drink. It isvery simple to make and has very pleasurable effects.    How does it Work? Well, the active ingredient in marijuana is THC, which is not a water-soluble compound. So, the THC has tobe extracted using alcohol and then added to food and/or liquid that can then be entered directly to your system through the digestive tract rather than through the lungs. This type of consumption of marijuana tends to be both slower and more efficient than smoking it. Further the unpleasant effects of smoking heated smoke are completely eliminated. For these reasons this is the favored method of marijuana consumption by many people.      Note:The highest proof alcohol available should be used.(Everclear is suggested)    Method One:To do this you must obtain the highest proof alcohol available. This allows for the best results. 190 proof is highly recommended. Then one must then obtain marijuana. Rule of Thumb: (About one half gram per ounce ofalcohol.) Remember, the more the merrier. After one has these materials, they can begin.    First break up the marijuana and take out all seeds. You may leave the stems. Then open the bottle of alcohol and pour about a forth out. This will allow room for the weed. Then carefully add all broken up herbal matter into the bottle. Put the cap back on and shake. Now, store it in a safe area and let it sit for approximately 2 to 3 weeks.       After the long awaited wait, pour the green tinted substance into another container through a strainer. You may use a coffee filter.The final product is high proof alcohol laced with high amounts of pure THC.    Note:One may drink the product straight, but this is not recommended. A common way of consumption is to mix three parts 7-Up with one part Green Dragon and a dollop of honey stirred in. Served over ice.    A faster method is to heat the alcohol to a sub-boiling temperature and stir in the crushed marijuana. Great deal of care should be taken if this method is chosen, as the alcohol is highly flammable.    Note:Use an electric stove. OR Put the alcohol in a pan, and put that pan into a pot of boiling water (thereby heating the alcohol safely.)Avoid using an open flame. OR Heat the alcohol with herbal mixture in the microwave at half power for approximately 11 to 16 minutes or until liquid is an emerald shade of light green. This is method of heating should be a last resort.    First, heat up alcohol using any method. Then stir in the crushed herbal blend while alcohol is at sub-boiling temperatures and let sit. Stirring every couple of minutes. This should take no longer then 25 minutes. Turn off stove and let cool. Then take the product and strain it. A coffee filter works just fine.    Note:Use rubber gloves when straining the liquid. If you are using a coffee filter, make sure to squeeze any extra liquid out of the marijuana mesh; this is wheremost of the liquid THC is still hiding.    Consumption Notes: If you wish you could pour the final product into a bowl of cherries and let sit over night in the refrigerator. Then strain and keep liquid. What this does is lets the cherries become saturated in the Green Dragon. One may then eat the cherries to become drunk and high. Doses range from 20 to 40 cherries. Now, the liquid is still good, use it to make mixed drinks and/or other methods of consumption. (Consider making Jell-o shots.) Enjoy.      this recipe is taken from  urlLink www.neonjoint.com   

﻿The Project Gutenberg EBook of The Wit and Humor of America, Volume IX (of
X), by Various

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or
re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org


Title: The Wit and Humor of America, Volume IX (of X)

Author: Various

Editor: Marshall P. Wilder

Release Date: January 26, 2008 [EBook #24433]

Language: English


*** START OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK WIT AND HUMOR ***




Produced by Suzanne Lybarger, Annie McGuire, Brian Janes
and the Online Distributed Proofreading Team at
http://www.pgdp.net









Library Edition

THE WIT AND HUMOR OF AMERICA

In Ten Volumes

VOL. IX




[Illustration: EDGAR WILSON NYE (BILL NYE)

Drawing from photo, copyright by Rockwood]




THE WIT AND HUMOR OF AMERICA

EDITED BY MARSHALL P. WILDER

_Volume IX_


Funk & Wagnalls Company
New York and London

Copyright MDCCCCVII, BOBBS-MERRILL COMPANY
Copyright MDCCCCXI, THE THWING COMPANY




CONTENTS

                                                                    PAGE

  Ballade of Ping-Pong, A                Alden Charles Noble        1690
  Boat that Ain't, The                   Wallace Irwin              1764
  Budge and Toddie                       John Habberton             1692
  Cavalier's Valentine, A                Clinton Scollard           1782
  Conscientious Curate and the
      Beauteous Ballet Girl, The         William Russell Rose       1756
  Country School, The                    Anonymous                  1734
  Evan Anderson's Poker Party            Benjamin Stevenson         1737
  Experiences of Gentle Jane, The        Carolyn Wells              1797
  Few Reflections, A                     Bill Arp                   1799
  Great Celebrator, A                    Bill Nye                   1784
  Gusher, The                            Charles Battell Loomis     1656
  He Wanted to Know                      Sam Walter Foss            1794
  Hoss, The                              James Whitcomb Riley       1759
  How I Spoke the Word                   Frank L. Stanton           1725
  How Jimaboy Found Himself              Francis Lynde              1765
  How the Money Goes                     John G. Saxe               1780
  "Hullo!"                               Sam Walter Foss            1706
  Lugubrious Whing-Whang, The            James Whitcomb Riley       1669
  Millionaires, The                      Max Adeler                 1675
  Mystery of Gilgal, The                 Hay                        1654
  Natural Philosophy                     William Henry Drummond     1722
  Nine Little Goblins, The               James Whitcomb Riley       1635
  Old-Fashioned Choir, The               Benjamin F. Taylor         1790
  Our Polite Parents                     Carolyn Wells              1688
  Our Very Wishes                        Harriet Prescott Spofford  1637
  Reflective Retrospect, A               John G. Saxe               1703
  Rule of Three, A                       Wallace Rice               1779
  Runaway Toys, The                      Frank L. Stanton           1671
  Soldier, Rest!                         Robert J. Burdette         1796
  Tale of the Tangled Telegram, The      Wilbur D. Nesbit           1709
  Threnody, A                            George Thomas Lanigan      1754
  Tim Flannigan's Mistake                Wallace Bruce Amsbary      1673
  University Intelligence Office, The    John Kendrick Bangs        1727
  Warrior, The                           Eugene Field               1708
  When Doctors Disagree                  S. E. Kiser                1762
  When the Little Boy Ran Away           Frank L. Stanton           1792
  Widow Bedott's Visitor, The            Frances M. Whicher         1660

COMPLETE INDEX AT THE END OF VOLUME X.




THE NINE LITTLE GOBLINS

BY JAMES WHITCOMB RILEY


  They all climbed up on a high board-fence--
    Nine little Goblins, with green-glass eyes--
  Nine little Goblins that had no sense,
    And couldn't tell coppers from cold mince pies;
      And they all climbed up on the fence, and sat--
      And I asked them what they were staring at.

  And the first one said, as he scratched his head
    With a queer little arm that reached out of his ear
  And rasped its claws in his hair so red--
    "This is what this little arm is fer!"
      And he scratched and stared, and the next one said
      "How on earth do _you_ scratch your head?"

  And he laughed like the screech of a rusty hinge--
    Laughed and laughed till his face grew black;
  And when he choked, with a final twinge
    Of his stifling laughter, he thumped his back
      With a fist that grew on the end of his tail
      Till the breath came back to his lips so pale.

  And the third little Goblin leered round at me--
    And there were no lids on his eyes at all--
  And he clucked one eye, and he says, says he,
    "What is the style of your socks this fall?"
      And he clapped his heels--and I sighed to see
      That he had hands where his feet should be.

  Then a bald-faced Goblin, gray and grim,
    Bowed his head, and I saw him slip
  His eyebrows off, as I looked at him,
    And paste them over his upper lip;
      And then he moaned in remorseful pain--
      "Would--Ah, would I'd me brows again!"

  And then the whole of the Goblin band
    Rocked on the fence-top to and fro,
  And clung, in a long row, hand in hand,
    Singing the songs that they used to know--
      Singing the songs that their grandsires sung
      In the goo-goo days of the Goblin-tongue.

  And ever they kept their green-glass eyes
    Fixed on me with a stony stare--
  Till my own grew glazed with a dread surmise,
    And my hat whooped up on my lifted hair,
      And I felt the heart in my breast snap to
      As you've heard the lid of a snuff-box do.

  And they sang, "You're asleep! There is no board-fence,
    And never a Goblin with green-glass eyes!--
  'Tis only a vision the mind invents
    After a supper of cold mince-pies,--
      And you're doomed to dream this way," they said,--
      "_And you sha'n't wake up till you're clean plum dead!_"




OUR VERY WISHES

BY HARRIET PRESCOTT SPOFFORD


It was natural that it should be quiet for Mrs. Cairnes in her empty
house. Once there had been such a family of brothers and sisters there!
But one by one they had married, or died, and at any rate had drifted
out of the house, so that she was quite alone with her work, and her
memories, and the echoes in her vacant rooms. She hadn't a great deal of
work; her memories were not pleasant; and the echoes were no pleasanter.
Her house was as comfortable otherwise as one could wish; in the very
centre of the village it was, too, so that no one could go to church, or
to shop, or to call, unless Mrs. Cairnes was aware of the fact, if she
chose; and the only thing that protected the neighbors from this
supervision was Mrs. Cairnes's mortal dread of the sun on her carpet;
for the sun lay in that bay-windowed corner nearly all the day, and even
though she filled the window full of geraniums and vines and
calla-lilies she could not quite shut it out, till she resorted to
sweeping inner curtains.

Mrs. Cairnes did her own work, because, as she said, then she knew it
was done. She had refused the company of various individuals, because,
as she said again, she wouldn't give them house-room. Perhaps it was for
the same reason that she had refused several offers of marriage;
although the only reason that she gave was that one was quite enough,
and she didn't want any boots bringing in mud for her to wipe up. But
the fact was that Captain Cairnes had been a mistake; and his relict
never allowed herself to dwell upon the fact of her loss, but she felt
herself obliged to say with too much feeling that all was for the best;
and she dared not risk the experiment again.

Mrs. Cairnes, however, might have been lonelier if she had been very
much at home; but she was President of the First Charitable, and
Secretary of the Second, and belonged to a reading-club, and a
sewing-circle, and a bible-class, and had every case of illness in town
more or less to oversee, and the circulation of the news to attend to,
and so she was away from home a good deal, and took many teas out. Some
people thought that if she hadn't to feed her cat she never would go
home. But the cat was all she had, she used to say, and nobody knew the
comfort it was to her. Yet, for all this, there were hours and seasons
when, obliged to stay in the house, it was intolerably dreary there, and
she longed for companionship. "Some one with an interest," she said.
"Some one who loves the same things that I do, who cares for me, and for
my pursuits. Some one like Sophia Maybury. Oh! how I should have liked
to spend my last days with Sophia! What keeps Dr. Maybury alive so, I
can't imagine. If he had only--gone to his rest"--said the good woman,
"Sophia and I could join our forces and live together in clover. And how
we should enjoy it! We could talk together, read together, sew together.
No more long, dull evenings and lonely nights listening to the mice. But
a friend, a dear sister, constantly at hand! Sophia was the gentlest
young woman, the prettiest,--oh, how I loved her in those days! She was
a part of my youth. I love her just as much now. I wish she could come
and live here. She might, if there weren't any Dr. Maybury. I can't
stand this solitude. Why did fate make me such a social old body, and
then set me here all alone?"

If Sophia was the prettiest young woman in those days, she was an
exceedingly pretty old woman in these, with her fresh face and her
bright eyes, and if her hair was not all her own, she had companions in
bangs. Dr. Maybury made a darling of her all his lifetime, and when he
died he left her what he had; not much,--the rent of the Webster
House,--but enough.

But there had always been a pea-hen in Mrs. Maybury's lot. It was all
very well to have an adoring husband,--but to have no home! The Doctor
had insisted for years upon living in the tavern, which he owned, and if
there was one thing that his wife detested more than another, it was
life in a tavern. The strange faces, the strange voices, the going and
coming, the dreary halls, the soiled table-cloths, the thick crockery,
the damp napkins, the flies, the tiresome _menu_--every roast tasting of
every other, no gravy to any,--the all out-doors feeling of the whole
business, your affairs in everybody's mouth, the banging doors, the
restless feet, the stamping of horses in the not distant stable, the
pandemonium of it all! She tried to make a little home in the corner of
it; but it was useless. And when one day Dr. Maybury suddenly died,
missing him and mourning him, and half distracted as she was, a thrill
shot across the darkness for half a thought,--now at any rate she could
have a home of her own! But presently she saw the folly of the
thought,--a home without a husband! She staid on at the tavern, and took
no pleasure in life.

But with Dr. Maybury's departure, the thought recurred again and again
to Mrs. Cairnes of her and Sophia's old dream of living together. "We
used to say, when we were girls, that we should keep house together, for
neither of us would ever marry. And it's a great, great pity we did! I
dare say, though, she's been very happy. I know she has, in fact. But
then if she hadn't been so happy with him, she wouldn't be so unhappy
without him. So it evens up. Well, it's half a century gone; but perhaps
she'll remember it. I should like to have her come here. I never could
bear Dr. Maybury, it's true; but then I could avoid the subject with
her. I mean to try. What a sweet, comfortable, peaceful time we should
have of it!"

A sweet, comfortable, peaceful time! Well; you shall see. For Mrs.
Maybury came; of course she came. Her dear, old friend Julia! Oh, if
anything could make up for Dr. Maybury's loss, it would be living with
Julia! What castles they used to build about living together and working
with the heathen around home. And Julia always went to the old East
Church, too; and they had believed just the same things, the same
election, and predestination and damnation and all; at one time they had
thought of going out missionaries together to the Polynesian Island, but
that had been before Julia took Captain Cairnes for better or worse,
principally worse, and before she herself undertook all she could in
converting Dr. Maybury,--a perfect Penelope's web of a work; for Dr.
Maybury died as he had lived, holding her fondest beliefs to be old
wives' fables, but not quarreling with her fidelity to them, any more
than with her finger-rings or her false bangs, her ribbons, and what she
considered her folderols in general. And how kind, she went on in her
thoughts, it was of Julia to want her now! what comfort they would be to
each other! Go,--of course she would!

She took Allida with her; Allida who had been her maid so long that she
was a part of herself; and who, for the sake of still being with her
mistress, agreed to do the cooking at Mrs. Cairnes's and help in the
house-work. The house was warm and light on the night she arrived;
other friends had dropped in to receive her, too; there were flowers on
the table in the cosy red dining-room, delicate slices of ham that had
been stuffed with olives and sweet herbs, a cold queen's pudding rich
with frosting, a mold of coffee jelly in a basin of whipped cream, and
little thin bread-and-butter sandwiches.

"Oh, how delightful, how homelike!" cried Mrs. Maybury. How unlike the
great barn of a dining-room at the Webster House! What delicious bread
and butter! Julia had always been such a famous cook! "Oh, this is home
indeed, Julia!" she cried.

Alas! The queen's pudding appeared in one shape or another till it lost
all resemblance to itself, and that ham after a fortnight became too
familiar for respect.

Mrs. Cairnes, when all was reëstablished and at rights, Sophia in the
best bedroom, Allida in the kitchen, Sophia's board paying Allida's
wages and all extra expense, Sophia's bird singing like a little
fountain of melody in the distance, Mrs. Cairnes then felt that after a
long life of nothingness, fate was smiling on her; here was friendship,
interest, comfort, company, content. No more lonesomeness now. Here was
a motive for coming home; here was somebody to come home to! And she
straightway put the thing to touch, by coming home from her
prayer-meeting, her bible-class, her Ladies' Circle, her First
Charitable, and taking in a whole world of pleasure in Sophia's waiting
presence, her welcoming smile, her voice asking for the news. And if
Sophia were asking for the news, news there must be to give Sophia! And
she went about with fresh eagerness, and dropped in here, there, and
everywhere, and picked up items at every corner to retail to Sophia. She
found it a little difficult to please Sophia about the table. Used to
all the variety of a public-house, Mrs. Maybury did not take very
kindly to the simple fare, did not quite understand why three people
must be a whole week getting through with a roast,--a roast that, served
underdone, served overdone, served cold, served warmed up with herbs,
served in a pie, made five dinners; she didn't quite see why one must
have salt fish on every Saturday, and baked beans on Sunday; she
hankered after the flesh-pots that, when she had them, she had found
tiresome, and than which she had frequently remarked she would rather
have the simplest home-made bread and butter. Apples, too. Mrs.
Cairnes's three apple-trees had been turned to great account in her
larder always; but now,--Mrs. Maybury never touched apple-sauce,
disliked apple-jelly, thought apple-pie unfit for human digestion,
apple-pudding worse; would have nothing with apples in it, except the
very little in mince-pie which she liked as rich as brandy and sherry
and costly spices could make it.

"No profit in this sort of boarder," thought the thrifty Mrs. Cairnes.
But then she didn't have Sophia for profit, only for friendliness and
companionship; and of course there must be some little drawbacks. Sophia
was not at all slow in expressing her likes and dislikes. Well, Mrs.
Cairnes meant she should have no more dislikes to express than need be.
Nevertheless, it made Mrs. Cairnes quite nervous with apprehension
concerning Mrs. Maybury's face on coming to the dinner-table; she left
off having roasts, and had a slice of steak; chops and tomato-sauce; a
young chicken. But even that chicken had to make its reappearance till
it might have been an old hen. "I declare," said Mrs. Cairnes, in the
privacy of her own emotions, "when I lived by myself I had only one
person to please! If Sophia had ever been any sort of a housekeeper
herself--it's easy to see why Dr. Maybury chose to live at a hotel!"
Still the gentle face opposite her at the table, the lively warmth of a
greeting when she opened the door, the delight of some one with whom to
talk things over, the source of life and movement in the house; all this
far outweighed the necessity of having to plan for variety in the little
dinners.

"I really shall starve to death if this thing does on," Mrs. Maybury had
meanwhile said to herself. "It isn't that I care so much for what I have
to eat; but I really can't eat enough here to keep me alive. If I went
out as Julia does, walking and talking all over town, I daresay I could
get up the same sort of appetite for sole-leather. But I haven't the
heart for it. I can't do it. I have to sit at home and haven't any
relish for anything. I really will see if Allida can't start something
different." But Allida could not make bricks without straw; she could
only prepare what Mrs. Cairnes provided, and as Mrs. Cairnes had never
had a servant before, she looked on the whole tribe of them as marauders
and natural enemies, and doled out everything from a locked store-room
at so much a head. "Well," sighed Mrs. Maybury, "perhaps I shall get
used to it." From which it will be seen that Julia's efforts after all
were not particularly successful. But if Mrs. Cairnes had been lonely
before Mrs. Maybury came, Mrs. Maybury was intolerably lonely, having
come; the greater part of the time, Allida being in the kitchen, or out
herself, and no one in the house but the sunshine, the cat, and the
bird; and she detested cats, and had a shudder if one touched her.
However, this was Julia's cat, this great black and white evil spirit,
looking like an imp of darkness; she would be kind to it if it didn't
touch her. But if it touched her--she shivered at the thought--she
couldn't answer for the consequences. Julia was so good in taking her
into her house, and listening to her woes, and trying to make her
comfortable,--only if this monster tried to kill her bird,--Mrs.
Maybury, sitting by herself, wept at the thought. How early it was dark
now, too! She didn't see what kept Julia so,--really she was doing too
much at her age. She hinted that gently to Julia when Mrs. Cairnes did
return. And Mrs. Cairnes could not quite have told what it was that was
so unpleasant in the remark. "My age," she said, laughing. "Why, I am as
young as ever I was, and as full of life. I could start on an exploring
expedition to Africa, to-morrow!" But she began to experience a novel
sense of bondage,--she who had all her life been responsible to no one.
And presently, whenever she went out, she had a dim consciousness in her
mental background of Sophia's eyes following her, of Sophia's thoughts
upon her trail, of Sophia's face peering from the bay-window as she went
from one door to another. She begged some slips, and put a half dozen
new flower-pots on a bracket-shelf in the window, in order to obscure
the casual view, and left the inner curtain drawn.

She came in one day, and there was that inner curtain strung wide open,
and the sun pouring through the plants in a broad radiance. Before she
took off her bonnet she stepped to the window and drew the curtain.

"Oh!" cried Mrs. Maybury, "what made you do that? The sunshine is so
pleasant."

"I can't have the sun streaming in here and taking all the color out of
my carpet, Sophia!" said Julia, with some asperity.

"But the sun is so very healthy," urged Mrs. Maybury.

"Oh, well! I can't be getting a new carpet every day."

"You feel," said Mrs. Maybury, turning away wrath, "as you did when you
were a little girl, and the teacher told you to lay your wet slate in
your lap: 'It'll take the fade out of my gown,' said you. How long ago
is it! Does it seem as if it were you and I?"

"I don't know," said Julia tartly. "I don't bother myself much with
abstractions. I know it is you and I." And she put her things on the
hall-rack, as she was going out again in the afternoon to bible-class.

She had no sooner gone out than Mrs. Maybury went and strung up every
curtain in the house where the sun was shining, and sat down
triumphantly and rocked contentedly for five minutes in the glow, when
her conscience overcame her, and she put them all down again, and went
out into the kitchen for a little comfort from Allida. But Allida had
gone out, too; so she came back to the sitting-room, and longed for the
stir and bustle and frequent faces of the tavern, and welcomed a
book-canvasser presently as if she had been a dear friend.

Perhaps Julia's conscience stirred a little, too; for she came home
earlier than usual, put away her wraps, lighted an extra lamp, and said,
"Now we'll have a long, cosy evening to ourselves."

"We might have a little game of cards," said Sophia, timidly. "I know a
capital double solitaire--"

"Cards!" cried Julia.

"Why--why not?"

"Cards! And I just came from bible-class!"

"What in the world has that got to do with it?"

"Everything!"

"Why, the Doctor and I used--"

"That doesn't make it any better."

"Why, Julia, you can't possibly mean that there's any harm,--that,--that
it's wicked--"

"I think we'd better drop the subject, Sophia," said Julia loftily.

"But I don't want to drop the subject!" exclaimed Mrs. Maybury. "I don't
want you to think that the Doctor would--"

"I can't help what the Doctor did. I think cards are wicked! And that's
enough for me!"

"Well!" cried Mrs. Maybury, then in great dudgeon. "I'm not a member of
the old East Church in good and regular standing for forty years to be
told what's right and what's wrong by any one now!"

"If you're in good and regular standing, then the church is very lax in
its discipline, Sophia; that's all I've got to say."

"But, Julia, things have been very much liberalized of late years. The
minister's own daughter has been to dancing-school." The toss of Julia's
head, and her snort of contempt only said, "So much the worse for the
minister's daughter!"

"Nobody believes in infant damnation now," continued Mrs. Maybury.

"I do."

"O Julia!" cried Mrs. Maybury, for the moment quite faint, "that is
because," she said, as soon as she had rallied, and breaking the
dreadful silence, "you never had any little babies of your own, Julia."
This was adding insult to injury, and still there was silence. "I don't
believe it of you, Julia," she continued, "your kind heart--"

"I don't know what a kind heart has to do with the immutable decrees of
an offended deity!" cried the exasperated Julia. "And this only goes to
show what forty years' association with a free-thinking--"

"You were right in the beginning, Julia; we had better drop the
subject," said Mrs. Maybury; and she gathered up her Afghan wools
gently, and went to her room.

Mrs. Maybury came down, however, when tea was ready, and all was serene
again, especially as Susan Peyster came in to tell the news about Dean
Hampton's defalcation at the village bank, and had a seat at the table.

"But I don't understand what on earth he has done with the money," said
Mrs. Maybury.

"Gambled," said Susan.

"Cards," said Mrs. Cairnes. "You see!"

"Not that sort of gambling!" cried Susan. "But stocks and that."

"It's the same thing," said Mrs. Cairnes.

"And that's the least part of it! They do say"--said Susan, balancing
her teaspoon as if in doubt about speaking.

"They say what?" cried Mrs. Cairnes.

But for our part, as we don't know Mr. Dean Hampton, and, therefore, can
not relish his misdoings with the same zest as if we did, we will not
waste time on what was said. Only when Susan had gone, Mrs. Maybury
rose, too, and said, "I must say, Julia, that I think this dreadful
conversation is infinitely worse and more wicked than any game of cards
could be!"

"What are you talking about?" said Julia, jocosely, and quite
good-humored again.

"And the amount of shocking gossip of this description that I've heard
since I've been in your house is already more than I've heard in the
whole course of my life! Dr. Maybury would never allow a word of gossip
in our rooms." And she went to bed.

"You shall never have another word in mine!" said the thunderstricken
Julia to herself. And if she had heard that the North Pole had tipped
all its ice off into space, she wouldn't have told her a syllable about
it all that week.

But in the course of a fortnight, a particularly choice bit of news
having turned up, and the edge of her resentment having worn away, Mrs.
Cairnes could not keep it to herself. And poor Mrs. Maybury, famishing
now for some object of interest, received it so kindly that things
returned to their former footing. Perhaps not quite to their former
footing, for Julia had now a feeling of restraint about her news, and
didn't tell the most piquant, and winked to her visitors if the details
trenched too much on what had better be unspoken. "Not that it was
really so very--so very--but then Mrs. Maybury, you know," she said
afterward. But she had never been accustomed to this restraint, and she
didn't like it.

In fact Mrs. Cairnes found herself under restraints that were amounting
to a mild bondage. She must be at home for meals, of course; she had
been in the habit of being at home or not as she chose, and often of
taking the bite and sup at other houses, which precluded the necessity
of preparing anything at home. She must have the meals to suit another
and very different palate, which was irksome and troublesome. She must
exercise a carefulness concerning her conversation, and that of her
gossips, too, which destroyed both zest and freedom. She strongly
suspected that in her absence the curtains were up and the sun was
allowed to play havoc with her carpets. She was remonstrated with on her
goings and comings, she who had had the largest liberty for two score
years. And then, when the minister came to see her, she never had the
least good of the call, so much of it was absorbed by Mrs. Maybury. And
Mrs. Maybury's health was delicate, she fussed and complained and
whined; she cared for the things that Mrs. Cairnes didn't care for, and
didn't care for the things that Mrs. Cairnes did care for; Mrs. Cairnes
was conscious of her unspoken surprise at much that she said and did,
and resented the somewhat superior gentleness and refinement of her old
friend as much as the old friend resented her superior strength and
liveliness.

"What has changed Sophia so? It isn't Sophia at all! And I thought so
much of her, and I looked forward to spending my old age with her so
happily!" murmured Julia. "But perhaps it will come right," she reasoned
cheerily. "I may get used to it. I didn't suppose there'd be any rubbing
of corners. But as there is, the sooner they're rubbed off the better,
and we shall settle down into comfort again, at last instead of at
first, as I had hoped in the beginning."

Alas! "I really can't stand these plants of yours, Julia, dear," said
Mrs. Maybury, soon afterward. "I've tried to. I've said nothing. I've
waited, to be very sure. But I never have been able to have plants about
me. They act like poison to me. They always make me sneeze so. And you
see I'm all stuffed up--"

Her plants! Almost as dear to her as children might have been! The chief
ornament of her parlors! And just ready to bloom! This was really asking
too much. "I don't believe it's the plants at all," said Julia. "That's
sheer nonsense. Anybody living on this green and vegetating earth to be
poisoned by plants in a window! I don't suppose they trouble you any
more than your lamp all night does me; but I've never said anything
about that. I can't bear lamplight at night; I want it perfectly dark,
and the light streams out of your room--"

"Why don't you shut the door, then?"

"Because I never shut my door. I want to hear if anything disturbs the
house. Why don't you shut yours?"

"I never do, either. I've always had several rooms, and kept the doors
open between. It isn't healthy to sleep with closed doors."

"Healthy! Healthy! I don't hear anything else from morning till night
when I'm in the house."

"You can't hear very much of it, then."

"I should think, Sophia Maybury, you wanted to live forever!"

"Goodness knows I don't!" cried Mrs. Maybury, bursting into tears. And
that night she shut her bedroom door and opened the window, and sneezed
worse than ever all day afterward, in spite of the fact that Mrs.
Cairnes had put all her cherished plants into the dining-room alcove.

"I can't imagine what has changed Julia so," sighed Mrs. Maybury. "She
used to be so bright and sweet and good-tempered. And now I really don't
know what sort of an answer I'm to have to anything I say. It keeps my
nerves stretched on the _qui vive_ all day. I am so disappointed. I am
sure the Doctor would be very unhappy if he knew how I felt."

But Mrs. Maybury had need to pity herself; Julia didn't pity her. "She's
been made a baby of so long," said Julia, "that now she really can't go
alone." And perhaps she was a little bitterer about it than she would
have been had Captain Cairnes ever made a baby of her in the least, at
any time.

They were sitting together one afternoon, a thunderstorm of unusual
severity having detained Mrs. Cairnes at home, and the conversation had
been more or less acrimonious, as often of late. Just before dusk there
came a great burst of sun, and the whole heavens were suffused with
splendor.

"O Julia! Come here, come quick, and see this sunset!" cried Mrs.
Maybury. But Julia did not come. "Oh! I can't bear to have you lose it,"
urged the philanthropic lover of nature again. "There! It's streaming up
the very zenith. I never saw such color--do come."

"Mercy, Sophia! You're always wanting people to leave what they're about
and see something! My lap's full of worsteds."

"Well," said Sophia. "It's for your own sake. I don't know that it will
do me any good. Only if one enjoys beautiful sights."

"Dear me! Well, there! Is that all? I don't see anything remarkable. The
idea of making one get up to see that!" And as she took her seat, up
jumped the great black and white cat to look out in his turn. Mrs.
Maybury would have been more than human if she had not said "Scat! scat!
scat!" and she did say it, shaking herself in horror.

It was the last straw. Mrs. Cairnes took her cat in her arms and moved
majestically out of the room, put on her rubbers, and went out to tea,
and did not come home till the light up stairs told her that Mrs.
Maybury had gone to her room.

Where was it all going to end? Mrs. Cairnes could not send Sophia away
after all the protestations she had made. Mrs. Maybury could never put
such a slight on Julia as to go away without more overt cause for
displeasure. It seemed as though they would have to fight it out in the
union.

But that night a glare lit the sky which quite outdid the sunset; the
fire-bells and clattering engines called attention to it much more
loudly than Sophia had announced the larger conflagration. And in the
morning it was found that the Webster House was in ashes. All of Mrs.
Maybury's property was in the building. The insurance had run out the
week before, and meaning to attend to it every day she had let it go,
and here she was penniless.

But no one need commiserate with her. Instead of any terror at her
situation a wild joy sprang up within her. Relief and freedom clapped
their wings above her.

It was Mrs. Cairnes who felt that she herself needed pity. A lamp at
nights, oceans of fresh air careering round the house, the everlasting
canary-bird's singing to bear, her plants exiled, her table
revolutionized, her movements watched, her conversation restrained, her
cat abused, the board of two people and the wages of one to come out of
her narrow hoard. But she rose to the emergency. Sophia was penniless.
Sophia was homeless. The things which it was the ashes of bitterness to
allow her as a right, she could well give her as a benefactress. Sophia
was welcome to all she had. She went into the room, meaning to overwhelm
the weeping, helpless Sophia with her benevolence. Sophia was not there.

Mrs. Maybury came in some hours later, a carriage and a job-wagon
presently following her to the door. "You are very good, Julia," said
she, when Julia received her with the rapid sentences of welcome and
assurance that she had been accumulating. "And you mustn't think I'm not
sensible of all your kindness. I am. But my husband gave the institution
advice for nothing for forty years, and I think I have rights there now
without feeling under obligations to any. I've visited the directors,
and I've had a meeting called and attended,--I've had all your energy,
Julia, and have hurried things along in quite your own fashion. And as I
had just one hundred dollars in my purse after I sold my watch this
morning, I've paid it over for the entrance-fee, and I've been admitted
and am going to spend the rest of my days in the Old Ladies' Home. I've
the upper corner front room, and I hope you will come and see me there."

"Sophia!"

"Don't speak! Don't say one word! My mind was made up irrevocably when I
went out. Nothing you, nothing any one, can say, will change it. I'm one
of the old ladies now."

Mrs. Cairnes brought all her plants back into the parlor, pulled down
the shades, drew the inside curtain, had the cat's cushion again in its
familiar corner, and gave Allida warning, within half an hour. She
looked about a little while and luxuriated in her freedom,--no one to
supervise her conversation, her movements, her opinions, her food. Never
mind the empty rooms, or the echoes there! She read an angry psalm or
two, looked over some texts denouncing pharisees and hypocrites, thought
indignantly of the ingratitude there was in the world, felt that any
way, and on the whole, she was where she was before Sophia came, and
went out to spend the evening, and came in at the nine-o'clock
bell-ringing with such a sense of freedom, that she sat up till midnight
to enjoy it.

And Sophia spent the day putting her multitudinous belongings into
place, hanging up her bird-cage, arranging her books and her
bureau-drawers, setting up a stocking, and making the acquaintance of
the old ladies next her. She taught one of them to play double solitaire
that very evening. And then she talked a little while concerning Dr.
Maybury, about whom Julia had never seemed willing to hear a word; and
then she read, "Come unto me, all ye that labor and are heavy laden, and
I will give you rest," and went to bed perfectly happy.

Julia came to see her the next day, and Sophia received her with open
arms. Every one knew that Julia had begged her to stay and live with her
always, and share what she had. Julia goes now to see her every day of
her life, rain or snow, storm or shine; and the whole village says that
the friendship between those two old women is something ideal.




THE MYSTERY OF GILGAL

BY JOHN HAY


  The darkest, strangest mystery
  I ever read, or heern, or see
  Is 'long of a drink at Taggart's Hall--
    Tom Taggart's of Gilgal.

  I've heern the tale a thousand ways,
  But never could git through the maze
  That hangs around that queer day's doin's;
    But I'll tell the yarn to youans.

  Tom Taggart stood behind his bar,
  The time was fall, the skies was fa'r,
  The neighbors round the counter drawed,
    And ca'mly drinked and jawed.

  At last come Colonel Blood of Pike,
  And old Jedge Phinn, permiscus-like,
  And each, as he meandered in,
    Remarked, "A whisky-skin."

  Tom mixed the beverage full and fa'r,
  And slammed it, smoking, on the bar.
  Some says three fingers, some says two,--
    I'll leave the choice to you.

  Phinn to the drink put forth his hand;
  Blood drawed his knife, with accent bland,
  "I ax yer parding, Mister Phinn--
    Jest drap that whisky-skin."

  No man high-toneder could be found
  Than old Jedge Phinn the country round.
  Says he, "Young man, the tribe of Phinns
    Knows their own whisky-skins!"

  He went for his 'leven-inch bowie-knife:--
  "I tries to foller a Christian life;
  But I'll drap a slice of liver or two,
    My bloomin' shrub, with you."

  They carved in a way that all admired,
  Tell Blood drawed iron at last, and fired.
  It took Seth Bludso 'twixt the eyes,
    Which caused him great surprise.

  Then coats went off, and all went in;
  Shots and bad language swelled the din;
  The short, sharp bark of Derringers,
    Like bull-pups, cheered the furse.

  They piled the stiffs outside the door;
  They made, I reckon, a cord or more.
  Girls went that winter, as a rule,
    Alone to spellin'-school.

  I've sarched in vain, from Dan to Beer-
  Sheba, to make this mystery clear;
  But I end with hit as I did begin,--
    WHO GOT THE WHISKY-SKIN?




THE GUSHER

BY CHARLES BATTELL LOOMIS


Of course an afternoon tea is not to be taken seriously, and I hold that
any kind of conversation goes, as long as it is properly vacuous and
irrelevant.

One meets many kinds of afternoon teas--the bored, the bashful, the
intense, and once in a while the interesting, but for pure delight there
is nothing quite equals the gusher. She is generally very pretty. Nature
insists upon compensations.

When you meet a real gusher--one born to gush--you can just throw all
bounds of probability aside and say the first thing that comes into your
head, sure that it will meet with an appreciative burst of enthusiasm,
for your true gusher is nothing if she is not enthusiastic. There are
those who listen to everything you say and punctuate it with "Yes-s-s,
yes-s-s, yes-s-s," until the sibilance gets on your nerves; but the
attention of the Simon-pure gusher is purely subconscious. She could not
repeat a thing of what you have told her a half minute after hearing it.
Her real attention is on something else all the while--perhaps on the
gowns of her neighbors, perhaps on the reflection of her pretty
face--but never on the conversation. And why should it be? Is a tea a
place for the exercise of concentration? Perish the thought.

You are presented to her as "Mr. Mmmm," and she is "delighted," and
smiles so ravishingly that you wish you were twenty years younger. You
do not yet know that she is a gusher. But her first remark labels her.
Just to test her, for there is something in the animation of her face
and the farawayness of the eye that makes you suspect her sincerity, you
say:

"I happen to have six children--"

"Oh, how perfectly dee-ar! How old are they?"

She scans the gown of a woman who has just entered the room and, being
quite sure that she is engaged in a mental valuation of it, you say:

"They're all of them six."

"Oh, how lovely!" Her unseeing eyes look you in the face. "Just the
right age to be companions."

"Yes, all but one."

The eye has wandered to another gown, but the sympathetic voice says:

"Oh, what a pi-i-ty!"

"Yes, isn't it? But he's quite healthy."

It's a game now--fair game--and you're glad you came to the tea!

"Healthy, you say? How nice. It's perfectly lovely to be healthy. Do you
live in the country?"

"Not exactly the country. We live in Madison Square, under the trees."

"Oh, how perfectly idyllic!"

"Yes; we have all the advantages of the city and the delights of the
country. I got a permit from the Board of Education to put up a little
bungalow alongside the Worth monument, and the children bathe in the
fountain every morning when the weather is cold enough."

"Oh, how charming! How many children have you?"

"Only seven. The oldest is five and the youngest is six."

"Just the interesting age. Don't you think children fascinating?"

Again the roaming eye and the vivacious smile.

"Yes, indeed. My oldest--he's fourteen and quite original. He says that
when he grows up he doesn't know what he'll be."

"Really? How cute!"

"Yes, he says it every morning, a half-hour before breakfast."

"Fancy! How old did you say he was?"

"Just seventeen, but perfectly girl-like and masculine."

She nods her head, bows to an acquaintance in a distant part of the
room, and murmurs in musical, sympathetic tones:

"That's an adorable age."

"What, thirteen?"

"Yes. Did you say it was a girl?"

"Yes, his name's Ethel. He's a great help to her mother."

"Little darling."

"Yes; I tell them there may be city advantages, but I think they're much
better off where they are."

"Where did you say you were?"

"On the Connecticut shore. You see, having only the one child, Mrs.
Smith is very anxious that it should grow up healthy" (absent-minded
nods indicative of full attention), "and so little Ronald never comes to
the city at all. He plays with the fisherman's child and gets great
drafts of fresh air."

"Oh, how perfectly entrancing! You're quite a poet."

"No; I'm a painter."

Now she is really attentive. She thought you were just an ordinary
beast, and she finds that you may be a lion. Smith? Perhaps you're
Hopkinson Smith.

"Oh, do you paint? How perfectly adorable! What do you paint--landscapes
or portraits?"

Again the eye wanders and she inventories a dress, and you say:--

"Oils."

"Do you ever allow visitors come to your studio?"

"Why, I never prevent them, but I'm so afraid it will bore them that I
never ask them."

"Oh, how could anybody be bored at anything?"

"But every one hasn't your enthusiasm. My studio is in the top of the
Madison Square tower, and I never see a soul from week's end to week's
end."

"Oh, then you're not married."

"Dear, no; a man who is wedded to his art mustn't commit bigamy."

"Oh, how clever. So you're a bachelor?"

"Yes, but I have my wife for a chaperon and I'd be delighted to have you
come and take tea with us some Saturday from six until three."

"Perfectly delighted!" Her eye now catches sight of an acquaintance just
coming in, and as you prepare to leave her you say:--

"Hope you don't mind a little artistic unconventionality. We always have
beer at our teas served with sugar and lemons, the Russian fashion."

"Oh, I think it's much better than cream. I adore unconventionality."

"You're very glad you met me, I'm sure."

"Awfully good of you to say so."

Anything goes at an afternoon tea. But it's better not to go.




THE WIDOW BEDOTT'S VISITOR

BY FRANCES M. WHICHER


Jest in time, Mr. Crane: we've jist this minit sot down to tea. Draw up
a cheer and set by. Now, don't say a word: I shan't take _no_ for an
answer. Should a had things ruther different, to be sure, if I'd
suspected _you_, Mr. Crane; but I won't appolligize,--appolligies don't
never make nothin' no better, you know. Why, Melissy, you hain't half
sot the table: where's the plum-sass? thought you was a-gwine to git
some on't for tea? I don't see no cake, nother. What a keerless gal you
be! Dew bring 'em on quick; and, Melissy, dear, fetch out one o' them
are punkin pies and put it warmin'. How do you take your tea, Mr. Crane?
clear, hey? How much that makes me think o' husband! he always drunk
hisen clear. Now, dew make yerself to hum, Mr. Crane: help yerself to
things. Do you eat johnny-cake? 'cause if you don't I'll cut some white
bread. Dew, hey? We're all great hands for injin bread here, 'specially
Kier. If I don't make a johnny-cake every few days he says to me, says
he, "Mar, why don't you make some injin bread? it seems as if we hadn't
never had none." Melissy, pass the cheese. Kier, see't Mr. Crane has
butter. This 'ere butter's a leetle grain frouzy. I don't want you to
think it's my make, for't ain't. Sam Pendergrass's wife (she 'twas Sally
Smith) she borrowed butter o' me t'other day, and this 'ere's what she
sent back. I wouldn't 'a' had it on if I'd suspected company. How do you
feel to-day, Mr. Crane? Didn't take no cold last night! Well, I'm glad
on't. I was raly afeard you would, the lectur'-room was so turrible hot.
I was eny-most roasted, and I wa'n't dressed wonderful warm nother,--had
on my green silk mankiller, and that ain't very thick. Take a pickle,
Mr. Crane. I'm glad you're a favorite o' pickles. I think pickels a
delightful beveridge,--don't feel as if I could make out a meal without
'em. Once in a while I go visitin' where they don't have none on the
table, and when I git home the fust thing I dew's to dive for the
butt'ry and git a pickle. But husband couldn't eat 'em: they was like
pizen tew him. Melissy never eats 'em nother: she ain't no pickle hand.
Some gals eat pickles to make 'em grow poor, but Melissy hain't no such
foolish notions. I've brung her up so she shouldn't have. Why, I've
heered of gals drinkin' vinegar to thin 'em off and make their skin
delekit. They say Kesier Winkle--Why, Kier, what be you pokin' the sass
at Mr. Crane for? Melissy jest helped him. I heered Carline Gallup say
how't Kesier Winkle--Why, Kier, what do you mean by offerin' the cold
pork to Mr. Crane? jest as if he wanted pork for his tea! You see,
Kier's been over to the Holler to-day on bizness with old Uncle Dawson,
and he come hum with quite an appertite: says to me, says he, "Mar, dew
set on some cold pork and 'taters, for I'm as hungry as a bear." Lemme
fill up your cup, Mr. Crane. Melissy, bring on that are pie: I guess
it's warm by this time. There, I don't think anybody'd say that punkin
was burnt a-stewin! Take another pickle, Mr. Crane. Oh, I was a-gwine to
tell what Carline Gallup said about Kesier Winkle. Carline Gallup was a
manty-maker--What, Kier? ruther apt to talk? well, I know she was; but
then she used to be sewin' 't old Winkle's about half the time, and she
know'd purty well what went on there: yes, I know sewin'-gals is
ginerally tattlers.... But I was gwine to tell what Carline Gallup said.
Carline was a very stiddy gal: she was married about a year
ago,--married Joe Bennet,--Philander Bennet's son: you remember Phil
Bennet, don't you, Mr. Crane?--he 'twas killed so sudding over to
Ganderfield? Though, come to think, it must 'a' ben arter you went away
from here. He'd moved over to Ganderfield the spring afore he was
killed. Well, one day in hayin'-time he was to work in the
hay-field--take another piece o' pie, Mr. Crane: oh, dew! I insist
on't--well, he was to work in the hay-field, and he fell off the
hay-stack. I s'pose 'twouldn't 'a' killed him if it hadn't 'a' ben for
his comin' kermash onto a jug that was a-settin' on the ground aside o'
the stack. The spine of his back went right onto the jug and broke
it,--broke his back, I mean,--not the jug: that wa'n't even cracked.
Cur'us, wa'n't it? 'Twas quite a comfort to Miss Bennet in her
affliction: 'twas a jug she valleyed,--one 'twas her mother's....

Take another cup o' tea, Mr. Crane. Why, you don't mean to say you've
got done supper! ain't you gwine to take nothin' more? no more o' the
pie? nor the sass? Well, won't you have another pickle? Oh, that reminds
me: I was a-gwine to tell what Carline Gallup said about Kesier Winkle.
Why, Kier, seems to me you ain't very perlite to leave the table afore
anybody else does. Oh, yes, I remember now; it's singin'-school night: I
s'pose it's time you was off. Melissy, you want to go tew, don't you?
Well, I guess Mr. Crane'll excuse you. We'll jest set back the table
ag'in' the wall. I won't dew the dishes jest now. Me and Melissy does
the work ourselves, Mr. Crane. I hain't kept no gal sense Melissy was
big enough t' aid and assist me. I think help's more plague than
profit. No woman that has growed-up darters needn't keep help if she's
brung up her gals as she'd ought tew. Melissy, dear, put on your cloak:
it's a purty tejus evenin'. Kier, you tie up your throat: you know you
was complainin' of a soreness in't to-day; and you must be keerful to
tie it up when you cum hum: it's dangerous t' egspose yerself arter
singin'--apt to give a body the brown-critters,--and that's turrible.
You couldn't sing any more if you should git that, you know. You'd
better call for Mirandy and Seliny, hadn't you? Don't be out late.

Now, Mr. Crane, draw up to the stove: you must be chilly off there. You
gwine to the party to Major Coon's day arter to-morrow? S'pose they'll
give out ther invatations to-morrow. Do go, Mr. Crane: it'll chirk you
up and dew you good to go out into society ag'in. They say it's to be
quite numerous. But I guess ther won't be no dancin' nor highty-tighty
dewin's. If I thought ther would be I shouldn't go myself; for I don't
approve on 'em, and couldn't countenance 'em. What do you think Sam
Pendergrass's wife told me? She said how't the widder Jinkins (she 'twas
Poll Bingham) is a-havin' a new gownd made a purpose to wear to the
party,--one of these 'ere flambergasted, blazin' plaid consarns, with
tew awful wide kaiterin' flounces around the skirt. Did you ever! How
reedickilous for a woman o' her age, ain't it? I s'pose she expects t'
astonish the natyves, and make her market tew, like enough. Well, she's
to be pitied. Oh, Mr. Crane, I thought I _should go off_ last night when
I see that old critter squeeze up and hook onto you. How turrible
imperdent, wa'n't it! But seems to me I shouldn't 'a' felt as if I was
obleeged to went hum with her if I'd 'a' ben in your place, Mr. Crane.
She made a purty speech about me to the lectur': I'm 'most ashamed to
tell you on't, Mr. Crane, but it shows what the critter is. Kier says
he heered her stretch her neck acrost and whisper to old Green, "Mr.
Green, don't you think the widder Bedott seems to be wonderfully took up
with _crainiology_?" She's the brazin'-facedest critter 't ever lived;
it does beat all; I never _did_ see her equill. But it takes all sorts
o' folks to make up the world, you know. What did I understand you to
say, Mr. Crane?--a few minnits' conversation with me? Deary me! Is it
anything pertickler, Mr. Crane? Oh, dear suz! how you _dew_ frustrate
me! Not that it's anything oncommon fer the gentlemen to ax to have
private conversations with me, you know; but then--but then--bein' you,
it's different: circumstances alter cases, you know. What was you
a-gwine to say, Mr. Crane?

Oh, no, Mr. Crane, by no manner o' means; 'tain't a minute tew soon for
you to begin to talk about gittin' married ag'in. I am amazed you should
be afeerd I'd think so. See--how long's Miss Crane been dead? Six
months!--land o' Goshen!--why, I've know'd a number of individdiwals get
married in less time than that. There's Phil Bennet's widder 't I was
a-talkin' about jest now,--she 'twas Louisy Perce: her husband hadn't
been dead but _three_ months, you know. I don't think it looks well for
a _woman_ to be in such a hurry; but for a _man_ it's a different thing:
circumstances alter cases, you know. And then, sittiwated as you be, Mr.
Crane, it's a turrible thing for your family to be without a head to
superintend the domestic consarns and 'tend to the children,--to say
nothin' o' yerself, Mr. Crane. You dew need a companion, and no mistake.
Six months! Good grevious! Why, Squire Titus didn't wait but six _weeks_
after he buried his fust wife afore he married his second. I thought
ther' wa'n't no partickler need o' his hurryin' so, seein' his family
was all growed up. Such a critter as he pickt out, tew! 'Twas very
onsuitable; but every man to his taste,--I hain't no dispersition to
meddle with nobody's consarns. There's old farmer Dawson, tew,--his
pardner hain't ben dead but ten months. To be sure, he ain't married
yet; but he would 'a' ben long enough ago, if somebody I know on 'd gin
him any incurridgement. But 'tain't for me to speak o' that matter. He's
a clever old critter, and as rich as a Jew; but--lawful sakes!--he's old
enough to be my father. And there's Mr. Smith,--Jubiter Smith: you know
him, Mr. Crane,--his wife, (she 't was Aurory Pike) she died last
summer, and he's ben squintin' round among the wimmin ever since, and he
_may_ squint for all the good it'll dew him so far as I'm
consarned,--though Mr. Smith's a respectable man,--quite young and
hain't no family,--very well off, tew, and quite intellectible,--but I'm
purty partickler. Oh, Mr. Crane, it's ten years come Jinniwary sense I
witnessed the expiration o' my belovid companion!--an uncommon long time
to wait, to be sure; but 'tain't easy to find anybody to fill the place
o' Hezekier Bedott. I think _you're_ the most like husband of ary
individdiwal I ever see, Mr. Crane. Six months! murderation! cur'us you
should be afeard I'd think 'twas too soon. Why, I've knowed--

_Mr. Crane_--Well, widder, I've been thinking about taking another
companion, and I thought I'd ask you--

_Widow_--Oh, Mr. Crane, egscuse my commotion; it's so onexpected. Jest
hand me that are bottle of camfire off the mantletry shelf: I'm ruther
faint. Dew put a little mite on my handkercher and hold it to my nuz.
There, that'll dew: I'm obleeged tew ye. Now I'm ruther more composed:
you may perceed, Mr. Crane.

_Mr. C._--Well, widder, I was a-going to ask you whether--whether--

_Widow_--Continner, Mr. Crane,--dew. I know it's turrible embarrassin'.
I remember when my dezeased husband made his suppositions to me he
stammered and stuttered, and was so awfully flustered it did seem as if
he'd never git it out in the world; and I suppose it's ginerally the
case,--at least it has been with all them that's made suppositions to
me: you see they're generally oncerting about what kind of an answer
they're a-gwine to git, and it kind o' makes 'em narvous. But when an
individdiwal has reason to s'pose his attachment's reciperated, I don't
see what need there is o' his bein' flustrated,--though I must say it's
quite embarrassin' to me. Pray continner.

_Mr. C._--Well, then, I want to know if you're willing I should have
Melissy.

_Widow_--The dragon!

_Mr. C._--I hain't said anything to her about it yet,--thought the
proper way was to get your consent first. I remember when I courted
Trypheny we were engaged some time before mother Kenipe knew anything
about it, and when she found it out she was quite put out because I
didn't go to her first. So when I made up my mind about Melissy, thinks
me, I'll do it right this time, and speak to the old woman first--

_Widow_--_Old woman_, hey! That's a purty name to call me!--amazin'
perlite, tew! Want Melissy, hey! Tribble-ation! gracious sakes alive!
Well, I'll give it up now! I always knowed you was a simpleton, Tim
Crane, but, I _must_ confess, I didn't think you was _quite_ so big a
fool. Want Melissy, dew ye? If that don't beat all! What an everlastin'
old calf you must be, to s'pose she'd _look_ at _you_! Why, you're old
enough to be her father, and more, tew; Melissy ain't only in her
twenty-oneth year. What a reedickilous idee for a man o' your age! As
gray as a rat, tew! I wonder what this world _is_ a-comin' tew: 'tis
astonishin' what fools old widdiwers will make o' themselves! Have
Melissy! Melissy!

_Mr. C._--Why, widder, you surprise me. I'd no idee of being treated in
this way, after you'd ben so polite to me, and made such a fuss over me
and the girls.

_Widow_--Shet yer head, Tim Crane; nun o' yer sass to me. _There's_ your
hat on that are table, and _here's_ the door; and the sooner you put on
_one_ and march out o' t'other the better it will be for you. And I
advise you, afore you try to git married ag'in, to go out West and see
'f yer wife's cold; and arter yer satisfied on that p'int, jest put a
little lampblack on yer hair,--'twould add to yer appearance,
undoubtedly, and be of sarvice tew you when you want to flourish round
among the gals; and when ye've got yer hair fixt, jest splinter the
spine o' your back,--'twouldn't hurt your looks a mite: you'd be
intirely unresistible if you was a _leetle_ grain straiter.

_Mr. C._--Well, I never!

_Widow_--Hold your tongue, you consarned old coot you! I tell you
_there's_ your hat, and _there's_ the door: be off with yerself, quick
metre, or I'll give ye a h'ist with the broomstick.

_Mr. C._--Gimmeni!

_Widow_ (rising)--Git out, I say! I ain't a-gwine to stan' here and be
insulted under my own ruff; and so git along; and if ever you darken my
door ag'in, or say a word to Melissy, it'll be the wuss for you,--that's
all.

_Mr. C._--Treemenjous! What a buster!

_Widow_--Go 'long,--go 'long,--go long, you everlastin' old gum! I won't
hear another word (stops her ears). I won't. I won't. I won't. (Exit Mr.
Crane.)

       *       *       *       *       *

(Enter Melissy, accompanied by Captain Canoot.)

Good-evenin', cappen! Well, Melissy, hum at last, hey? Why didn't you
stay till mornin'? Purty business keepin' me up here so late waitin' for
you, when I'm eny-most tired to death iornin' and workin' like a slave
all day,--ought to ben abed an hour ago. Thought ye left me with
agreeable company, hey? I should like to know what arthly reason you had
to s'pose old Crane's was agreeable to me? I always despised the
critter; always thought he was a turrible fool, and now I'm convinced
on't. I'm completely dizgusted with him; and I let him know it to-night.
I gin him a piece o' my mind't I guess he'll be apt to remember for a
spell. I ruther think he went off with a flea in his ear. Why, cappen,
did ye ever hear of such a piece of audacity in all yer born days? for
him--_Tim Crane_--to durst to expire to my hand,--the widder o' Deacon
Bedott! Jest as if _I_'d condescen' to look at _him_,--the old numskull!
He don't know B from a broomstick; but if he'd 'a' stayed much longer
I'd 'a' teached him the difference, I guess. He's got his
_walkin'-ticket_ now. I hope he'll lemme alone in futur'. And where's
Kier? Gun home with the Cranes, hey! Well, I guess it's the last time.
And now, Melissy Bedott, you ain't to have nothin' more to dew with them
gals,--d'ye hear? You ain't to 'sociate with 'em at all arter this:
'twould only be incurridgin' the old man to come a-pesterin' me ag'in;
and I won't have him round,--d'ye hear? Don't be in a hurry, cappen, and
don't be alarmed at my gettin' in such a passion about old Crane's
persumption. Mebby you think 'twas onfeelin' in me to use him so,--and I
don't say but what 'twas, _ruther_; but then he's so awful dizagreeable
tew me, you know: 'tain't _everybody_ I'd treat in such a way. Well, if
you _must_ go, good-evenin'! Give my love to Hanner when you write
ag'in: dew call frequently, Captain Canoot,--dew.




THE LUGUBRIOUS WHING-WHANG

BY JAMES WHITCOMB RILEY


  The rhyme o' The Raggedy Man's 'at's best
    Is Tickle me, Love, in these Lonesome Ribs,--
  'Cause that-un's the strangest of all o' the rest,
  An' the worst to learn, an' the last one guessed,
  An' the funniest one, an' the foolishest.--
    Tickle me, Love, in these Lonesome Ribs!

  I don't know what in the world it means--
    Tickle me, Love, in these Lonesome Ribs!--
  An' nen when I _tell_ him I don't, he leans
  Like he was a-grindin' on some machines
  An' says: Ef I _don't_, w'y, I don't know _beans_!
    Tickle me, Love, in these Lonesome Ribs!

  Out on the margin of Moonshine Land,
    Tickle me, Love, in these Lonesome Ribs!
  Out where the Whing-Whang loves to stand,
  Writing his name with his tail in the sand,
  And swiping it out with his oogerish hand;
    Tickle me, Love, in these Lonesome Ribs!

  Is it the gibber of Gungs or Keeks?
    Tickle me, Love, in these Lonesome Ribs!
  Or what _is_ the sound that the Whing-Whang seeks?
  Crouching low by the winding creeks
  And holding his breath for weeks and weeks!
    Tickle me, Love, in these Lonesome Ribs!

  Anoint him, the wraithest of wraithly things!
    Tickle me, Love, in these Lonesome Ribs!
  'Tis a fair Whing-Whangess, with phosphor rings,
  And bridal-jewels of fangs and stings;
  And she sits and as sadly and softly sings
  As the mildewed whir of her own dead wings,--
    Tickle me, Dear,
      Tickle me here,
    Tickle me, Love, in me Lonesome Ribs!




THE RUNAWAY TOYS

BY FRANK L. STANTON


  The Hobby Horse was so tired that day,
    With never a bite to eat,
  That he whispered the Doll: "I shall run away!"
    And he galloped out to the street
  With the curly-headed Doll Baby on his back;
  And hard at his heels went the Jumping Jack!
  And the little boy--he never knew,
  Though the little Steam Engine blew and blew!

  Then the Humming Top went round and round,
    And crashed through the window-pane,
  And the scared Tin Monkey made a bound
    For the little red Railroad Train.
  The painted Duck went "Quack! quack! quack!"
  But the Railroad Train just whistled back!
  Till the Elephant saw what the racket meant
  And packed his trunk and--away he went!

  The little Toy Sheep in the corner there
    Was bleating long and loud;
  But the Parrot said "Hush!" and pulled his hair,
    And he galloped off with the crowd!
  And the Tin Horn blew and the Toy Drum beat,
  But away they went down the frightened street,
  Till they all caught up with the Railroad Train,
  And they never went back to their homes again!

  The blue policeman and all the boys
    Went racing away--away!
  For a big reward for the runaway Toys
    Was cried in the streets that day.
  But they kept right on round the world so wide,
  While the Little Boy stood on the steps and cried.
  Where did they go to, and what did they do?
  Bored a hole to China and--dropped through!




TIM FLANAGAN'S MISTAKE

BY WALLACE BRUCE AMSBARY


  Dat Irishman named Flanagan,
    He's often joke wid me,
  He leeve here now mos' twanty year,
    Ver' close to Kankakee;
  I always look for chance to gat
    An' even op wid heem,
  But he's too smart, exception wance,
    Dis Irishman named Tim.

  Wan Sunday tam' I'm walking out
    I meet Tim on de knoll,
  We bot' are hav' a promenade
    An' mak' a leddle stroll;
  We look down from de top of hill,
    An' on de reevere's edge
  Is w'at you call a heifer calf,--
    He stan' dere by de hedge.

  Dat calf stan' still an' wag hees tail
    On eas' an' den wes' side,
  An' den he wag it to de sout'
    For whip flies off hees hide;
  I say to Tim dat heifer calf
    Dat stan' so quiet still,
  You can not push him on de stream;
    He say, "By gosh, I will."

  An' den he grin an' smile out loud,
      He fall opon de groun',
  An' den he laugh wance mor' again
    An' roll de place aroun':
  He say, 'twill be a ver' good joke
    Opon dat heifer calf,
  An' wance mor' he start op h'right quick
    An' mak' de beeg horse laugh.

  Says Tim, "You watch me now, ma frien',
    I'll geeve dat calf wan scare,
  I will rone down an' push him quick
    On Kankakee Reevere."
  An' he laugh out a beeg lot mor',
    Den he t'row off hees hat,
  An' start down hill two-forty gait,
    He fly as swif' as bat.

  Dat calf he stan' an' wag hees tail
    For 'bout two t'ree tam' mor';
  W'en Tim com' ronnin' down de hill
    She move two yard down shore;
  But Tim now com' lak' cannon ball,
    He can't turn right nor lef',
  He miss de calf an' den, by gosh!
    Fall on reevere himse'f.

  Dose Sunday close dat Tim had on
    He wet dem t'roo an' t'roo,
  An' w'en he pick himse'f op slow
    An' walk heem out de sloo,
  He say, "Dat's good I mak' a laugh
    Before I tak' dat fall;
  I laugh not den, I hav' no fone
    Out of dis t'ing at all."




THE MILLIONAIRES

BY MAX ADELER


It had always been one of the luxuries of the Grimeses to consider what
they would do if they were rich. Many a time George and his wife,
sitting together of a summer evening upon the porch of their own pretty
house in Susanville, had looked at the long unoccupied country-seat of
General Jenkins, just across the way, and wished they had money enough
to buy the place and give it to the village for a park.

Mrs. Grimes often said that if she had a million dollars, the very first
thing she would do would be to purchase the Jenkins place. George's idea
was to tear down the fences, throwing everything open, and to dedicate
the grounds to the public. Mrs. Grimes wanted to put a great free
library in the house and to have a club for poor working-women in the
second-floor rooms. George estimated that one hundred thousand dollars
would be enough to carry out their plans. Say fifty thousand dollars for
purchase money, and then fifty more invested at six per cent. to
maintain the place.

"But if we had a million," said George, "I think I should give one
hundred and fifty thousand to the enterprise and do the thing right.
There would always be repairs and new books to buy and matters of that
kind."

But this was not the only benevolent dream of these kind-hearted people.
They liked to think of the joy that would fill the heart of that poor
struggling pastor, Mr. Borrow, if they could tell him that they would
pay the whole debt of the Presbyterian Church, six thousand dollars.

"And I would have his salary increased, George," said Mrs. Grimes. "It
is shameful to compel that poor man to live on a thousand dollars."

"Outrageous," said George. "I would guarantee him another thousand, and
maybe more; but we should have to do it quietly, for fear of wounding
him."

"That mortgage on the Methodist Church," said Mrs. Grimes. "Imagine the
happiness of those poor people in having it lifted! And so easy to do,
too, if we had a million dollars."

"Certainly, and I would give the Baptists a handsome pipe-organ instead
of that wheezing melodeon. Dreadful, isn't it?"

"You can get a fine organ for $2,000," said Mrs. Grimes.

"Yes, of course, but I wouldn't be mean about it; not mean on a million
dollars. Let them have a really good organ, say for $3,000 or $3,500;
and then build them a parsonage, too."

"The fact is," said Mrs. Grimes, "that people like us really ought to
have large wealth, for we know how to use it rightly."

"I often think of that," answered George. "If I know my own soul I long
to do good. It makes my heart bleed to see the misery about us, misery I
am absolutely unable to relieve. I am sure that if I really had a
million dollars I should not want to squander it on mere selfish
pleasure, nor would you. The greatest happiness any one can have is in
making others happy; and it is a wonder to me that our rich people don't
see this. Think of old General Jenkins and his twenty million dollars,
and what we would do for our neighbors with a mere fraction of that!"

"For we really want nothing much for ourselves," said Mrs. Grimes. "We
are entirely satisfied with what we have in this lovely little home and
with your $2,000 salary from the bank."

"Almost entirely," said George. "There are some few little things we
might add in--just a few; but with a million we could easily get them
and more and have such enormous amounts of money left."

"Almost the first thing I would do," said Mrs. Grimes, "would be to
settle a comfortable living for life on poor Isaac Wickersham. That man,
George, crippled as he is, lives on next to nothing. I don't believe he
has two hundred dollars a year."

"Well, we could give him twelve hundred and not miss it and then give
the same sum to Widow Clausen. She can barely keep alive."

"And there's another thing I'd do," said Mrs. Grimes. "If we kept a
carriage I would never ride up alone from the station or for pleasure. I
would always find some poor or infirm person to go with me. How people
can be so mean about their horses and carriages as some rich people are
is beyond my comprehension."

It is delightful pastime, expending in imagination large sums of money
that you haven't got. You need not regard considerations of prudence.
You can give free rein to your feelings and bestow your bounty with
reckless profusion. You obtain almost all the pleasure of large giving
without any cost. You feel nearly as happy as if you were actually doing
the good deeds which are the children of your fancy.

George Grimes and his wife had considered so often the benevolences they
would like to undertake if they had a million dollars that they could
have named them all at a moment's notice without referring to a
memorandum. Nearly everybody has engaged in this pastime, but the
Grimeses were to have the singular experience of the power to make their
dream a reality placed in their hands.

For one day George came flying home from the bank with a letter from the
executors of General Jenkins (who died suddenly in Mexico a week or two
before) announcing that the General had left a million dollars and the
country-seat in Susanville to George Grimes.

"And to think, Mary Jane," said George when the first delirium of their
joy had passed, "the dear old man was kind enough to say--here, let me
read it to you again from the quotation from the will in the letter: 'I
make this bequest because, from repeated conversations with the said
George Grimes, I know that he will use it aright.' So you see, dear, it
was worth while, wasn't it, to express our benevolent wishes sometimes
when we spoke of the needs of those who are around us?"

"Yes, and the General's kind remark makes this a sacred trust, which we
are to administer for him."

"We are only his stewards."

"Stewards for his bounty."

"So that we must try to do exactly what we think he would have liked us
to do," said George.

"Nothing else, dear?"

"Why, of course we are to have some discretion, some margin; and
besides, nobody possibly could guess precisely what he would have us
do."

"But now, at any rate, George, we can realize fully one of our longing
desires and give to the people the lovely park and library?"

George seemed thoughtful. "I think, Mary Jane," he said, "I would not
act precipitately about that. Let us reflect upon the matter. It might
seem unkind to the memory of the General just to give away his gift
almost before we get it."

They looked at each other, and Mrs. Grimes said:

"Of course there is no hurry. And we are really a little cramped in this
house. The nursery is much too small for the children and there is not a
decent fruit tree in our garden."

"The thing can just stay open until we have time to consider."

"But I am so glad for dear old Isaac. We can take care of him, anyhow,
and of Mrs. Clausen, too."

"To be sure," said George. "The obligation is sacred. Let me see, how
much was it we thought Isaac ought to have?"

"Twelve hundred a year."

"H-m-m," murmured George, "and he has two hundred now; an increase of
five hundred per cent. I'm afraid it will turn the old man's head.
However, I wouldn't exactly promise anything for a few days yet."

"Many a man in his station in life is happy upon a thousand."

"A thousand! Why, my dear, there is not a man of his class in town that
makes six hundred."

"George?"

"Well?"

"We must keep horses, and there is no room to build a stable on this
place."

"No."

"Could we live here and keep the horses in the General's stables across
the way, even if the place were turned into a park?"

"That is worth thinking of."

"And George?"

"Well, dear?"

"It's a horrid thing to confess, but do you know, George, I've felt
myself getting meaner and meaner, and stingier and stingier ever since
you brought the good news."

George tried to smile, but the effort was unsuccessful; he looked
half-vexed and half-ashamed.

"Oh, I wouldn't put it just that way," he said. "The news is so exciting
that we hardly know at once how to adjust ourselves to it. We are simply
prudent. It would be folly to plunge ahead without any caution at all.
How much did you say the debt of the Presbyterian Church is?"

"Six thousand, I think."

"A good deal for a little church like that to owe."

"Yes, but--"

"You didn't promise anything, Mary Jane, did you, to Mrs. Borrow?"

"No, for I had nothing to promise, but I did tell her on Sunday that I
would help them liberally if I could."

"They will base large expectations on that, sure. I wish you hadn't said
it just that way. Of course, we are bound to help them, but I should
like to have a perfectly free hand in doing it."

There was silence for a moment, while both looked through the window at
the General's place over the way.

"Beautiful, isn't it?" asked Mrs. Grimes.

"Lovely. That little annex on the side would make a snug den for me; and
imagine the prospect from that south bedroom window! You would enjoy
every look at it."

"George?"

"What?"

"George, dear, tell me frankly, do you really feel in your heart as
generous as you did yesterday?"

"Now, my dear, why press that matter? Call it meaner or narrower or what
you will; maybe I am a little more so than I was; but there is nothing
to be ashamed of. It is the conservative instinct asserting itself; the
very same faculty in man that holds society together. I will be liberal
enough when the time comes, never fear. I am not going to disregard what
one may call the pledges of a lifetime. We will treat everybody right,
the Presbyterian Church and Mr. Borrow included. His salary is a
thousand, I think you said?"

"Yes."

"Well, I am willing to make it fifteen hundred right now, if you are."

"We said, you remember, it ought to be two thousand."

"Who said so?"

"You did, on the porch here the other evening."

"I never said so. There isn't a preacher around here gets that much. The
Episcopalians with their rich people only give eighteen hundred."

"And a house."

"Very well, the Presbyterians can build a house if they want to."

"You consent then to pledge five hundred more to the minister's salary?"

"I said I would if you would, but my advice is just to let the matter go
over until to-morrow or next day, when the whole thing can be
considered."

"Very well, but, George, sixty thousand dollars is a great deal of
money, and we certainly can afford to be liberal with it, for the
General's sake as well as for our own!"

"Everything depends upon how you look at it. In one way the sum is
large. In another way it isn't. General Jenkins had just twenty times
sixty thousand. Tremendous, isn't it? He might just as well have left us
another million. He is in Heaven and wouldn't miss it. Then we could
have some of our plans more fully carried out."

"I hate to be thought covetous," answered Mrs. Grimes, "but I do wish he
had put on that other million."

The next day Mr. Grimes, while sitting with his wife after supper, took
a memorandum from his pocket and said:

"I've been jotting down some figures, Mary Jane, just to see how we will
come out with our income of sixty thousand dollars."

"Well?"

"If we give the place across the street for a park and a library and a
hundred thousand dollars with which to run it, we shall have just nine
hundred thousand left."

"Yes."

"We shall want horses, say a carriage pair, and a horse for the station
wagon. Then I must have a saddle horse and there must be a pony for the
children. I thought also you might as well have a gentle pair for your
own driving. That makes six. Then there will have to be, say, three
stable men. Now, my notion is that we shall put up a larger house
farther up town with all the necessary stabling. Count the cost of the
house and suitable appointments, and add in the four months' trip to
Europe which we decided yesterday to take next summer, and how much of
that fifty-four thousand do you think we shall have left at the end of
the year?"

"But why build the house from our income?"

"Mary Jane, I want to start out with the fixed idea that we will not cut
into our principal."

"Well, how much will we have over?"

"Not a dollar! The outlay for the year will approximate fifty-six
thousand dollars."

"Large, isn't it?"

"And yet I don't see how we can reduce it if we are to live as people
in our circumstances might reasonably be expected to live."

"We must cut off something."

"That is what I think. If we give the park and the library building to
the town why not let the town pay the cost of caring for them?"

"Then we could save the interest on that other hundred thousand."

"Exactly, and nobody will suffer. The gift of the property alone is
magnificent. Who is going to complain of us? We will decide now to give
the real estate and then stop."

Two days later Mr. Grimes came home early from the bank with a letter in
his hand. He looked white and for a moment after entering his wife's
room he could hardly command utterance.

"I have some bad news for you, dear--terrible news," he said, almost
falling into a chair.

The thought flashed through Mrs. Grimes' mind that the General had made
a later will which had been found and which revoked the bequest to
George. She could hardly whisper:

"What is it?"

"The executors write to me that the million dollars left to me by the
General draws only about four per cent. interest."

"George!"

"Four per cent! Forty thousand dollars instead of sixty thousand! What a
frightful loss! Twenty thousand dollars a year gone at one breath!"

"Are you sure, George?"

"Sure? Here is the letter. Read it yourself. One-third of our fortune
swept away before we have a chance to touch it!"

"I think it was very unkind of the General to turn the four per cents.
over to us while somebody else gets the six per cents. How _could_ he do
such a thing? And you such an old friend, too!"

"Mary Jane, that man always had a mean streak in him. I've said so to
myself many a time. But, anyhow, this frightful loss settles one thing;
we can't afford to give that property across the street to the town. We
must move over there to live, and even then, with the huge expense of
keeping such a place in order, we shall have to watch things narrowly to
make ends meet."

"And you never were good at retrenching, George."

"But we've _got_ to retrench. Every superfluous expenditure must be cut
off. As for the park and free library, that seems wild now, doesn't it?
I don't regret abandoning the scheme. The people of this town never did
appreciate public spirit or generosity, did they?"

"Never."

"I'm very sorry you spoke to Mrs. Borrow about helping their church. Do
you think she remembers it?"

"She met me to-day and said they were expecting something handsome."

Mr. Grimes laughed bitterly.

"That's always the way with those people. They are the worst beggars!
When a lot of folks get together and start a church it is almost
indecent for them to come running around to ask other folks to support
it. I have half a notion not to give them a cent."

"Not even for Mr. Borrow's salary?"

"Certainly not! Half the clergymen in the United States get less than a
thousand dollars a year; why can't he do as the rest do? Am I to be
called upon to support a lot of poor preachers? A good deal of nerve is
required, I think, to ask such a thing of me."

Two weeks afterward Mr. Grimes and his wife sat together again on the
porch in the cool of the evening.

"Now," said Grimes, "let us together go over these charities we were
talking about and be done with them. Let us start with the tough fact
staring us in the face that, with only one million dollars at four per
cent. and all our new and necessary expenses, we shall have to look
sharp or I'll be borrowing money to live on in less than eight months."

"Well," said Mrs. Grimes, "what shall we cut out? Would you give up the
Baptist organ that we used to talk about?"

"Mary Jane, it is really surprising how you let such things as that stay
in your mind. I considered that organ scheme abandoned long ago."

"Is it worth while, do you think, to do anything with the Methodist
Church mortgage?"

"How much is it?"

"Three thousand dollars, I think."

"Yes, three thousand from forty thousand leaves us only thirty-seven
thousand. Then, if we do it for the Methodists we shall have to do it
for the Lutherans and the Presbyterians and swarms of churches all
around the country. We can't make flesh of one and fowl of another. It
will be safer to treat them all alike; and more just, too. I think we
ought to try to be just with them, don't you, Mary Jane?"

"And Mr. Borrow's salary?"

"Ha! Yes! That is a thousand dollars, isn't it? It does seem but a
trifle. But they have no children and they have themselves completely
adjusted to it. And suppose we should raise it one year and die next
year? He would feel worse than if he just went along in the old way.
When a man is fully adjusted to a thing it is the part of prudence, it
seems to me, just to let him alone."

"I wish we could--"

"Oh, well, if you want to; but I propose that we don't make them the
offer until next year or the year after. We shall have our matters
arranged better by that time."

"And now about Isaac Wickersham?"

"Have you seen him lately?"

"Two or three days ago."

"Did he seem discontented or unhappy?"

"No."

"You promised to help him?"

"What I said was, 'We are going to do something for you, Isaac'"

"Something! That commits us to nothing in particular. Was it your idea,
Mary Jane, to make him an allowance?"

"Yes."

"There you cut into our insufficient income again. I don't see how we
can afford it with all these expenses heaping up on us; really I don't."

"But we must give him something; I promised it."

George thought a moment and then said:

"This is the end of September and I sha'nt want this straw hat that I
have been wearing all summer. Suppose you give him that. A good straw
hat is 'something.'"

"You remember Mrs. Clausen, George?"

"Have we got to load up with her, too?"

"Let me explain. You recall that I told her I would try to make her
comfortable, and when I found that our circumstances were going to be
really straitened, I sent her my red flannel petticoat with my love, for
I know she can be comfortable in that."

"Of course she can."

"So this afternoon when I came up from the city she got out of the
train with me and I felt so half-ashamed of the gift that I pretended
not to see her and hurried out to the carriage and drove quickly up the
hill. She is afraid of horses, anyhow."

"Always was," said George.

"But, George, I don't feel quite right about it yet; the gift of a
petticoat is rather stingy, isn't it?"

"No, I don't think so."

"And, George, to be perfectly honest with ourselves now, don't you think
we are a little bit meaner than we were, say, last June?"

George cleared his throat and hesitated, and then he said:

"I admit nothing, excepting that the only people who are fit to have
money are the people who know how to take care of it."




OUR POLITE PARENTS

BY CAROLYN WELLS


SEDATE MAMMA

  When guests were present, dear little Mabel
  Climbed right up on the dinner-table
  And naughtily stood upon her head!
  "I wouldn't do that, dear," Mamma said.


  MERRY MOSES

  Merry, funny little Moses
  Burnt off both his brothers' noses;
  And it made them look so queer
  Mamma said, "Why, Moses, dear!"


  JOHNNY'S FUN

  Johnny climbed up on the bed,
  And hammered nails in Mamma's head.
  Though the child was much elated,
  Mamma felt quite irritated.

  A MERRY GAME

  Betty and Belinda Ames
  Had the pleasantest of games;
  'Twas to hide from one another
  Marmaduke, their baby brother.

  Once Belinda, little love,
  Hid the baby in the stove;
  Such a joke! for little Bet
  Hasn't found the baby yet.


  TOM AND GRANDPA

  From his toes up to his shins
  Tom stuck Grandpa full of pins;
  Although Tom the fun enjoyed,
  Grandpapa was quite annoyed.


  BABY'S LOOKS

  Bobby with the nursery shears
  Cut off both the baby's ears;
  At the baby, so unsightly,
  Mamma raised her eyebrows slightly.


  JEANETTE'S PRANKS

  One night, Jeanette, a roguish little lass,
  Sneaked in the guest room and turned on the gas;
  When morning dawned the guest was dead in bed,
  But "Children will be children," Mamma said.




A BALLADE OF PING-PONG

BY ALDEN CHARLES NOBLE


  She wears a rosebud in her hair
    To mock me as it tosses free;
  Were I more wise and she less fair
    I fear that I should never be
    A victim to such witchery;
  For at her wiles and lovely arts
    I'm fain to laugh with her, while she
  Plays ping-pong with my heart of hearts.

  The play's the thing; I wonder where,
    What courtier with what courtesy
  First played it, with what lady fair,
    To music of what minstrelsy?
    I wonder did he seem to see
  Such eyes wherein a sunbeam starts,
    And did he love (as I) while she
  Played ping-pong with his heart of hearts?

  For battledore they called it, there
    In courts of gilded chivalry;
  No gallant ever lived to dare
    To doubt its airy potency;
    But now, that all the pageantry
  Of those dead emperors departs,
    I dream that she in memory
  Plays ping-pong with my heart of hearts.


L'ENVOI

  Ah, maiden, I must sail a sea
    Whereof there are no maps or charts;
  Wilt thou sail too, and there with me
    Play ping-pong with my heart of hearts?




BUDGE AND TODDIE

BY JOHN HABBERTON


My Sunday dinner was unexceptional in point of quantity and quality, and
a bottle of my brother-in-law's claret proved to be most excellent; yet
a certain uneasiness of mind prevented my enjoying the meal as
thoroughly as under other circumstances I might have done. My uneasiness
came of a mingled sense of responsibility and ignorance. I felt that it
was the proper thing for me to see that my nephews spent the day with
some sense of the requirements and duties of the Sabbath; but how I was
to bring it about, I hardly knew. The boys were too small to have
Bible-lessons administered to them, and they were too lively to be kept
quiet by any ordinary means. After a great deal of thought, I determined
to consult the children themselves, and try to learn what their parents'
custom had been.

"Budge," said I, "what do you do Sundays when your papa and mama are
home? What do they read to you,--what do they talk about?"

"Oh, they swing us--lots!" said Budge, with brightening eyes.

"An' zey takes us to get jacks," observed Toddie.

"Oh, yes!" exclaimed Budge; "jacks-in-the-pulpit--don't you know?"

"Hum--ye--es; I do remember some such thing in my youthful days. They
grow where there's plenty of mud, don't they?"

"Yes, an' there's a brook there, an' ferns, an' birch-bark, an' if you
don't look out you'll tumble into the brook when you go to get birch."

"An' we goes to Hawksnest Rock," piped Toddie, "an' papa carries us up
on his back when we gets tired."

"An' he makes us whistles," said Budge.

"Budge," said I, rather hastily, "enough. In the language of the poet

  "'These earthly pleasures I resign,'

and I'm rather astonished that your papa hasn't taught you to do
likewise. Don't he ever read to you?"

"Oh, yes," cried Budge, clapping his hands, as a happy thought struck
him. "He gets down the Bible--the great _big_ Bible, you know--an' we
all lay on the floor, an' he reads us stories out of it. There's David,
an' Noah, an' when Christ was a little boy, an' Joseph, an'
turnbackPharo'sarmyhallelujah--"

"And what?"

"TurnbackPharo'sarmyhallelujah," repeated Budge. "Don't you know how
Moses held out his cane over the Red Sea, an' the water went way up one
side, an' way up the other side, and all the Isrulites went across? It's
just the same thing as _drown_oldPharo'sarmyhallelujah--don't you
know?"

"Budge," said I, "I suspect you of having heard the Jubilee Singers."

"Oh, and papa and mama sings us all those Jubilee songs--there's 'Swing
Low,' an' 'Roll Jordan,' an' 'Steal Away,' an' 'My Way's Cloudy,' an'
'Get on Board, Childuns,' an' lots. An' you can sing us every one of
'em."

"An' papa takes us in the woods, an' makesh us canes," said Toddie.

"Yes," said Budge, "and where there's new houses buildin', he takes us
up ladders."

"Has he any way of putting an extension on the afternoon?" I asked.

"I don't know what that is," said Budge, "but he puts an India-rubber
blanket on the grass, and then we all lie down an' make b'lieve we're
soldiers asleep. Only sometimes when we wake up papa stays asleep, an'
mama won't let us wake him. I don't think that's a very nice play."

"Well, I think Bible stories are nicer than anything else, don't you?"

Budge seemed somewhat in doubt. "I think swingin' is nicer," said
he--"oh, no;--let's get some jacks--_I'll_ tell you what!--make us
whistles, an' we can blow on 'em while we're goin' to get the jacks.
Toddie, dear, wouldn't _you_ like jacks and whistles?"

"Yesh--an' swingin'--an' birch--an' wantsh to go to Hawksnesh Rock,"
answered Toddie.

"Let's have Bible stories first," said I. "The Lord mightn't like it if
you didn't learn anything good to-day."

"Well," said Budge, with the regulation religious-matter-of-duty face,
"let's. I guess I like 'bout Joseph best."

"Tell us 'bout Bliaff," suggested Toddie.

"Oh, no, Tod," remonstrated Budge; "Joseph's coat was just as bloody as
Goliath's head was." Then Budge turned to me and explained that "all Tod
likes Goliath for is 'cause when his head was cut off it was all
bloody." And then Toddie--the airy sprite whom his mother described as
being irresistibly drawn to whatever was beautiful--Toddie glared upon
me as a butcher's apprentice might stare at a doomed lamb, and
remarked:

"Bliaff's head was all bluggy, an' David's sword was all bluggy--bluggy
as everyfing."

I hastily breathed a small prayer, opened the Bible, turned to the story
of Joseph, and audibly condensed it as I read:

"Joseph was a good little boy whose papa loved him very dearly. But his
brothers didn't like him. And they sold him, to go to Egypt. And he was
very smart, and told the people what their dreams meant, and he got to
be a great man. And his brothers went to Egypt to buy corn, and Joseph
sold them some, and then he let them know who he was. And he sent them
home to bring their papa to Egypt, and then they all lived there
together."

"That's ain't it," remarked Toddie, with the air of a man who felt
himself to be unjustly treated. "Is it, Budge?"

"Oh, no," said Budge, "you didn't read it good a bit; _I'll_ tell you
how it is. Once there was a little boy named Joseph, an' he had eleven
budders--they was _awful_ eleven budders. An' his papa gave him a new
coat, an' his budders hadn't nothin' but their old jackets to wear. An'
one day he was carryin' 'em their dinner, an' they put him in a deep,
dark hole, but they didn't put his nice new coat in--they killed a kid,
an' dipped the coat--just think of doin' that to a nice new coat--they
dipped it in the kid's blood, an' made it all bloody."

"All bluggy," echoed Toddy, with ferocious emphasis. Budge continued:

"But there were some Ishmalites comin' along that way, and the awful
eleven budders took him out of the deep, dark hole, an' sold him to the
Ishmalites, and they sold him away down in Egypt. An' his poor old papa
cried, an' cried, 'cause he thought a big lion ate Joseph up; but he
wasn't ate up a bit; but there wasn't no post-office nor choo-choos,[1]
nor stages in Egypt, an' there wasn't any telegraphs, so Joseph couldn't
let his papa know where he was; an' he got so smart an' so good that the
king of Egypt let him sell all the corn an' take care of the money; an'
one day some men came to buy some corn, an' Joseph looked at 'em an'
there they was his own budders! An' he scared 'em like everything; _I'd_
have _slapped_ 'em all if _I'd_ been Joseph, but he just scared 'em, an'
then he let 'em know who he was, an' he kissed 'em an' he didn't whip
'em, or make 'em go without their breakfast, or stand in a corner, nor
none of them things; an' then he sent 'em back for their papa, an' when
he saw his papa comin', he ran like everything, and gave him a great big
hug and a kiss. Joseph was too big to ask his papa if he'd brought him
any candy, but he was awful glad to see him. An' the king gave Joseph's
papa a nice farm, an' they all had real good times after that."

"And they dipped the coat in the blood, an' made it all bluggy,"
reiterated Toddie.

"Uncle Harry," said Budge, "what do you think _my_ papa would do if he
thought I was all ate up by a lion? I guess he'd cry _awful_, don't you?
Now tell us another story--oh, _I'll_ tell you--read us 'bout--"

"'Bout Bliaff," interrupted Toddie.

"_You_ tell _me_ about him, Toddie," said I.

"Why," said Toddie, "Bliaff was a brate bid man, an' Dave was brate
little man, an' Bliaff said, 'Come over here'n an' I'll eat you up,' an'
Dave said, '_I_ ain't fyaid of you.' So Dave put five little stones in a
sling an' asked de Lord to help him, an' let ze sling go bang into
bequeen Bliaff's eyes an' knocked him down dead, an' Dave took Bliaff's
sword an' sworded Bliaff's head off, an' made it all bluggy, an' Bliaff
runned away." This short narration was accompanied by more spirited and
unexpected gestures than Mr. Gough ever puts into a long lecture.

"I don't like 'bout Goliath at all," remarked Budge. "_I'd_ like to hear
'bout Ferus."

"Who?"

"Ferus; don't you know?"

"Never heard of him, Budge."

"Why--y--y--!" exclaimed Budge; "didn't you have no papa when you was a
little boy?"

"Yes, but he never told me about any one named Ferus; there's no such
person named in Anthon's Classical Dictionary, either. What sort of a
man was he?"

"Why, once there was a man, an' his name was Ferus--_Of_ferus, an' he
went about fightin' for kings, but when any king got afraid of anybody,
he wouldn't fight for him no more. An' one day he couldn't find no kings
that wasn't afraid of nobody. An' the people told him the Lord was the
biggest king in the world, an' he wasn't afraid of nobody or nothing.
An' he asked 'em where he could find the Lord, an' they said he was way
up in heaven so nobody couldn't see him but the angels, but he liked
folks to _work_ for him instead of fight. So Ferus wanted to know what
kind of work he could do, an' the people said there was a river not far
off, where there wasn't no ferry-boats, cos the water run so fast, an'
they guessed if he'd carry folks across, the Lord would like it. So
Ferus went there, an' he cut him a good, strong cane, an' whenever
anybody wanted to go across the river he'd carry 'em on his back.

"One night he was sittin' in his little house by the fire, an' smokin'
his pipe an' readin' the paper, an' 'twas rainin' an' blowin' an'
hailin' an' stormin', an' he was so glad there wasn't anybody wantin' to
go 'cross the river, when he heard somebody call one 'Ferus!' An' he
looked out the window, but he couldn't see nobody, so he sat down again.
Then somebody called 'Ferus!' again, and he opened the door again, an'
there was a little bit of a boy, 'bout as big as Toddie. An' Ferus said,
'Hello, young fellow, does your mother know you're out?' An' the little
boy said, 'I want to go 'cross the river.'--'Well,' says Ferus, 'you're
a mighty little fellow to be travelin' alone, but hop up.' So the little
boy jumped up on Ferus's back, and Ferus walked into the water. Oh,
my--_wasn't_ it cold? An' every step he took that little boy got
heavier, so Ferus nearly tumbled down an' they liked to both got
drownded. An' when they got across the river Ferus said, 'Well, you
_are_ the heaviest small fry I ever carried,' and he turned around to
look at him, an' 'twasn't no little boy at all--'twas a big man--'twas
Christ. An' Christ said, 'Ferus, I heard you was tryin' to work for me,
so I thought I'd come down an' see you, an' not let you know who I was.
An' now you shall have a new name; you shall be called _Christ_offerus,
cos that means Christ-carrier.' An' everybody called him Christofferus
after that, an' when he died they called him _Saint_ Christopher, cos
Saint is what they called good people when they're dead."

Budge himself had the face of a rapt saint as he told this story, but my
contemplation of his countenance was suddenly arrested by Toddie, who,
disapproving of the unexciting nature of his brother's recital, had
strayed into the garden, investigated a hornet's nest, been stung, and
set up a piercing shriek. He ran in to me, and as I hastily picked him
up, he sobbed:

"Want to be wocked.[2] Want 'Toddie one boy day.'"

I rocked him violently, and petted him tenderly, but again he sobbed:

"Want 'Toddie one boy day.'"

"What _does_ the child mean?" I exclaimed.

"He wants you to sing to him about 'Charley boy one day,'" said Budge.
"He always wants mama to sing that when he's hurt, an' then he stops
crying."

"I don't know it," said I. "Won't 'Roll, Jordan,' do, Toddie?"

"_I'll_ tell you how it goes," said Budge, and forthwith the youth sang
the following song, a line at a time, I following him in words and air:

  "Where is my little bastik[3] gone?"
    Said Charley boy one day;
  "I guess some little boy or girl
    Has taken it away.

  "An' kittie, too--where _ish_ she gone?
    Oh, dear, what I shall do?
  I wish I could my bastik find,
    An' little kittie, too.

  "I'll go to mamma's room an' look;
    Perhaps she may be there;
  For kittie likes to take a nap
    In mamma's easy chair.

  "O mamma, mamma, come an' look?
    See what a little heap!
  Here's kittie in the bastik here,
    All cuddled down to sleep."

Where the applicability of this poem to my nephew's peculiar trouble
appeared, I could not see, but as I finished it, his sobs gave place to
a sigh of relief.

"Toddie," said I, "do you love your Uncle Harry?"

"Esh, I _do_ love you."

"Then tell me how that ridiculous song comforts you?"

"Makes me feel good, an' all nicey," replied Toddie.

"Wouldn't you feel just as good if I sang, 'Plunged in a gulf of dark
despair?'"

"No, don't like dokdishpairs; if a dokdishpair done anyfing to me, I'd
knock it right down dead."

With this extremely lucid remark, our conversation on this particular
subject ended; but I wondered, during a few uneasy moments, whether the
temporary mental aberration which had once afflicted Helen's grandfather
and mine was not reappearing in this, his youngest descendant. My
wondering was cut short by Budge, who remarked, in a confident tone:

"Now, Uncle Harry, we'll have the whistles, I guess."

I acted upon the suggestion, and led the way to the woods. I had not had
occasion to seek a hickory sapling before for years; not since the war,
in fact, when I learned how hot a fire small hickory sticks would make.
I had not sought wood for whistles since--gracious, nearly a quarter of
a century ago! The dissimilar associations called up by these
recollections threatened to put me in a frame of mind which might have
resulted in a bad poem, had not my nephews kept up a lively succession
of questions such as no one but children can ask. The whistles
completed, I was marched, with music, to the place where the "Jacks"
grew. It was just such a place as boys instinctively delight in--low,
damp, and boggy, with a brook hiding treacherously away under
overhanging ferns and grasses. The children knew by sight the plant
which bore the "Jacks," and every discovery was announced by a piercing
shriek of delight. At first I looked hurriedly toward the brook as each
yell clove the air; but, as I became accustomed to it, my attention was
diverted by some exquisite ferns. Suddenly, however, a succession of
shrieks announced that something was wrong, and across a large fern I
saw a small face in a great deal of agony. Budge was hurrying to the
relief of his brother, and was soon as deeply imbedded as Toddie was in
the rich black mud, at the bottom of the brook. I dashed to the rescue,
stood astride the brook, and offered a hand to each boy, when a
treacherous tuft of grass gave way, and, with a glorious splash, I went
in myself. This accident turned Toddie's sorrow to laughter, but I can't
say I made light of my misfortune on that account. To fall into _clean_
water is not pleasant, even when one is trout-fishing; but to be clad in
white pants, and suddenly drop nearly knee-deep in the lap of mother
Earth is quite a different thing. I hastily picked up the children, and
threw them upon the bank, and then wrathfully strode out myself, and
tried to shake myself as I have seen a Newfoundland dog do. The shake
was not a success--it caused my trouser-leg to flap dismally about my
ankles, and sent the streams of loathsome ooze trickling down into my
shoes. My hat, of drab felt, had fallen off by the brookside, and been
plentifully spattered as I got out. I looked at my youngest nephew with
speechless indignation.

"Uncle Harry," said Budge, "'twas real good of the Lord to let you be
with us, else Toddie might have been drownded."

"Yes," said I, "and I shouldn't have much--"

"Ocken Hawwy," cried Toddie, running impetuously toward me, pulling me
down, and patting my cheek with his muddy black hand, "I _loves_ you for
takin' me out de water."

"I accept your apology," said I, "but let's hurry home." There was but
one residence to pass, and that, thank fortune, was so densely screened
by shrubbery that the inmates could not see the road. To be sure, we
were on a favorite driving road, but we could reach home in five
minutes, and we might dodge into the woods if we heard a carriage
coming. Ha! There came a carriage already, and we--was there ever a
sorrier-looking group? There were ladies in the carriage, too--could it
be--of course it was--did the evil spirit, which guided those children
always, send an attendant for Miss Mayton before he began operations?
There she was, anyway--cool, neat, dainty, trying to look collected, but
severely flushed by the attempt. It was of no use to drop my eyes, for
she had already recognized me; so I turned to her a face which I think
must have been just the one--unless more defiant--that I carried into
two or three cavalry charges.

"You seem to have been having a real good time together," said she, with
a conventional smile, as the carriage passed. "Remember, you're all
going to call on me to-morrow afternoon."

FOOTNOTES:

[1] Railway cars.

[2] Rocked.

[3] Basket.




A REFLECTIVE RETROSPECT

BY JOHN G. SAXE


  'Tis twenty years, and something more,
    Since, all athirst for useful knowledge,
  I took some draughts of classic lore,
    Drawn very mild, at ----rd College;
  Yet I remember all that one
    Could wish to hold in recollection;
  The boys, the joys, the noise, the fun;
    But not a single Conic Section.

  I recollect those harsh affairs,
    The morning bells that gave us panics;
  I recollect the formal prayers,
    That seemed like lessons in Mechanics;
  I recollect the drowsy way
    In which the students listened to them,
  As clearly, in my wig, to-day,
    As when, a boy, I slumbered through them.

  I recollect the tutors all
    As freshly now, if I may say so,
  As any chapter I recall
    In Homer or Ovidius Naso.
  I recollect, extremely well,
    "Old Hugh," the mildest of fanatics;
  I well remember Matthew Bell,
    But very faintly, Mathematics.

  I recollect the prizes paid
  For lessons fathomed to the bottom;
  (Alas that pencil-marks should fade!)
  I recollect the chaps who got 'em,--
  The light equestrians who soared
  O'er every passage reckoned stony;
  And took the chalks,--but never scored
  A single honor to the pony!

  Ah me! what changes Time has wrought,
  And how predictions have miscarried!
  A few have reached the goal they sought,
  And some are dead, and some are married!
  And some in city journals war;
  And some as politicians bicker;
  And some are pleading at the bar--
  For jury-verdicts, or for liquor!

  And some on Trade and Commerce wait;
  And some in schools with dunces battle;
  And some the Gospel propagate;
  And some the choicest breeds of cattle;
  And some are living at their ease;
  And some were wrecked in "the revulsion;"
  Some served the State for handsome fees,
  And one, I hear, upon compulsion!

  LAMONT, who, in his college days,
  Thought e'en a cross a moral scandal,
  Has left his Puritanic ways,
  And worships now with bell and candle;
  And MANN, who mourned the negro's fate,
  And held the slave as most unlucky,
  Now holds him, at the market rate,
  On a plantation in Kentucky!

  TOM KNOX--who swore in such a tone
  It fairly might be doubted whether
  It really was himself alone,
  Or _Knox_ and Erebus together--
  Has grown a very altered man,
  And, changing oaths for mild entreaty,
  Now recommends the Christian plan
  To savages in Otaheite!

  Alas for young ambition's vow!
  How envious Fate may overthrow it!--
  Poor HARVEY is in Congress now,
  Who struggled long to be a poet;
  SMITH carves (quite well) memorial stones,
  Who tried in vain to make the law go;
  HALL deals in hides; and "PIOUS JONES"
  Is dealing faro in Chicago!

  And, sadder still, the brilliant HAYS,
  Once honest, manly, and ambitious,
  Has taken latterly to ways
  Extremely profligate and vicious;
  By slow degrees--I can't tell how--
  He's reached at last the very groundsel,
  And in New York he figures now,
  A member of the Common Council!




"HULLO!"

BY SAM WALTER FOSS


  W'en you see a man in woe,
  Walk right up and say "hullo!"
  Say "hullo," an' "how d'ye do!"
  "How's the world a usin' you?"
  Slap the fellow on his back,
  Bring your han' down with a whack;
  Waltz right up, an' don't go slow,
  Grin an' shake an' say "hullo!"

  Is he clothed in rags? O sho!
  Walk right up an' say "hullo!"
  Rags is but a cotton roll
  Jest for wrappin' up a soul;
  An' a soul is worth a true
  Hale an' hearty "how d'ye do!"
  Don't wait for the crowd to go,
  Walk right up an' say "hullo!"

  W'en big vessels meet, they say,
  They saloot an' sail away.
  Jest the same are you an' me,
  Lonesome ships upon a sea;
  Each one sailing his own jog
  For a port beyond the fog.
  Let your speakin' trumpet blow,
  Lift your horn an' cry "hullo!"

  Say "hullo," an' "how d'ye do!"
  Other folks are good as you.
  W'en you leave your house of clay,
  Wanderin' in the Far-Away,
  W'en you travel through the strange
  Country t'other side the range,
  Then the souls you've cheered will know
  Who you be, an' say "hullo!"




THE WARRIOR


BY EUGENE FIELD


  Under the window is a man,
    Playing an organ all the day,
  Grinding as only a cripple can,
    In a moody, vague, uncertain way.

  His coat is blue and upon his face
    Is a look of highborn, restless pride,
  There is somewhat about him of martial grace
    And an empty sleeve hangs at his side.

  "Tell me, warrior bold and true,
    In what carnage, night or day,
  Came the merciless shot to you,
    Bearing your good, right arm away?"

  Fire dies out in the patriot's eye,
    Changed my warrior's tone and mien,
  Choked by emotion he makes reply,
    "Kansas--harvest--threshing machine!"




THE TALE OF THE TANGLED TELEGRAM

BY WILBUR D. NESBIT


James Trottingham Minton had a cousin who lived in St. Louis. "Cousin
Mary," Lucy Putnam discovered by a process of elimination, was the one
topic on which the reticent Mr. Minton could become talkative. Mary was
his ideal, almost. Let a girl broach the weather, he grew halt of
speech; should she bring up literature, his replies were almost inane;
let her seek to show that she kept abreast of the times, and talk of
politics--then Jimmy seemed to harbor a great fear in his own soul. But
give him the chance to make a few remarks about his cousin Mary and he
approached eloquence. For this reason Lucy Putnam was wise enough to ask
him something about Mary every so often.

Now, the question arises: Why should Lucy Putnam, or any other girl,
take any interest in a man who was so thoroughly bashful that his
trembling efforts to converse made the light quivering aspen look like a
ten-ton obelisk for calmness? The reason was, and is, that woman has the
same eye for babies and men. The more helpless these objects, the more
interested are the women. The man who makes the highest appeal to a
woman is he whose tongue cleaves to the roof of his mouth and who does
not know what to do with his hands in her presence. She must be a
princess, he a slave. Each knows this premise is unsupported by facts,
yet it is a joyous fiction while it lasts. James Trottingham Minton was
not a whit bashful when with men. No. He called on Mr. Putnam at his
office, and with the calmness of an agent collecting rent, asked him for
the hand of his daughter.

"Why, Jimmy," Mr. Putnam said good-naturedly, "of course I haven't any
objections to make. Seems to me that's a matter to be settled between
you and Lucy."

Jimmy smiled confidentially.

"I suppose you're right, Mr. Putnam. But, you see, I've never had the
nerve to say anything about it to her."

"Tut, tut. Nothing to be scared of. Nothing at all. What's the matter
with you, young man? In my day, if a fellow wanted to marry a girl he
wouldn't go and tell her father. He'd marry her first and then ask the
old man where they should live."

Mr. Putnam chuckled heavily. Mr. Putnam was possessed of a striking fund
of reminiscences of how young men used to do.

"Of course, Mr. Putnam," Jimmy said. "But the girls nowadays are
different, and a fel--"

"Not a bit of it. No, sir. Women haven't changed since Eve's time. You
mustn't get woman mixed up with dry goods stores, Jimmy. Don't you know
there's lots of fellows nowadays that fall in love with the fall styles?
Ha, ha!"

It was not all clear to Minton, but he laughed dutifully. His was a
diplomatic errand, and the half of diplomacy is making the victim think
you are in agreement with him.

"Yes, sir," Putnam chuckled on, "I'll bet that silk and ruffles and pink
shades over the lamp have caused more proposals than all the dimples and
bright eyes in the world. Eh, Jimmy? But you haven't proposed yet?"

"I did. You gave your consent."

"But you're not going to marry me. You want Lucy. You'll have to speak
to her about it."

"Now look, Mr. Putnam, I can come to you and ask you for her, and it's
the same thing."

"Not by a hundred miles, my boy. If I told Lucy you had said that, she
wouldn't be at home next time you called. The trouble with you is that
you don't understand women. You've got to talk direct to them."

Jimmy looked hopelessly out of the window.

"No; what you say to me and what I say to you hasn't any more to do with
you and Lucy than if you were selling me a bill of goods. I like you,
Jimmy, and I've watched your career so far with interest, and I look for
great things from you in the future, and that's why I say to you to go
ahead and get Lucy, and good luck to you both."

Mr. Putnam took up some papers from his desk and pretended to be
studying them, but from the tail of his eye he gathered the gloom that
was settling over Jimmy's face. The elder man enjoyed the situation.

"Well, Mr. Putnam," Jimmy asked, "why can't you just tell Lucy for me
that I have asked you, and that you say it's all right? Then when I go
to see her next time, it'll all be arranged and understood."

"Le' me see. Didn't I read a poem or something at school about some one
who hadn't sand enough to propose to a girl and who got another man to
ask her? But it wasn't her own father. Why, Jimmy, if you haven't
courage enough to propose to a girl, what do you suppose will be your
finish if she marries you? A married man has to have spunk."

"I've got the spunk all right, but you understand how I feel."

"Sure! Let me give you some advice. When you propose to a girl, you
don't have to come right out and ask her to marry you."

Jimmy caught at the straw.

"You don't?" he asked.

"Certainly not. There's half a dozen ways of letting her know that you
want her. Usually--always, I may say--she knows it anyway, and unless
she wants you she'll not let you tell her so. But if I wanted a short,
sharp 'No' from a girl, I'd get her father to ask her to marry me."

"Then you mean that I've got to ask her myself?"

"To be sure."

"I can't do it, Mr. Putnam; I can't."

"Write it."

"Why, I'd feel as if the postman and everybody else knew it."

"Telephone."

"Worse yet."

"Jim Minton, I'm disgusted with you. I thought you were a young man with
some enterprise, but if you lose your courage over such an every-day
affair as proposing to a girl--"

"But men don't propose every day."

"Somebody is proposing to somebody every day. It goes on all the time.
No, sir; I wash my hands of it. I'll not withdraw my consent, and you
have my moral support and encouragement, but getting married is the same
as getting into trouble--you have to handle your own case."

"But, Mr. Putnam--"

"You'll only go over the same ground again. Good morning. I don't want
to hear any more of this until it is settled one way or the other. I'll
not help and I'll not hinder. It--It's up to you."

With this colloquial farewell Mr. Putnam waved his hand and turned to
his papers. Jimmy accumulated his hat and stick, and left, barren of
hope.

That night he took Lucy to see "Romeo and Juliet." The confidence and
enthusiasm of _Romeo_ merely threw him into a deeper despair of his own
ability as a suitor, and made him even more taciturn and stumbling of
speech than ever. His silence grew heavier and heavier, until at last
Lucy threw out her never-failing life-line. She asked him about his
cousin Mary.

"By the way," he said, brightening up, "Cousin Mary is going through
here one day next week."

"Is she? How I should like to know her. If she is anything like you she
must be very agreeable."

"She isn't like me, but she is agreeable. Won't you let me try to bring
you two together--at lunch down-town, or something like that?"

"It would be fine."

"I'll do it. I'll arrange it just as soon as I see her."

Then silence, pall-like, fell again upon them. Jimmy thought of _Romeo_,
and Lucy thought of--_Romeo_, let us say. When a young man and a young
woman, who are the least bit inclined one to another, witness
Shakespeare's great educative effort, the young woman can not help
imagining herself leaning over the balcony watching the attempts of the
young man to clamber up the rope ladder.

After he had gone that night, Lucy sat down for a soul communion with
herself. Pity the woman who does not have soul communions. She who can
sit side by side with herself and make herself believe that she is
perfectly right and proper in thinking and believing as she does, is
happy. The first question Lucy Putnam put to her subliminal self was:
"Do I love Jimmy?" Subliminal self, true to sex, equivocated. It said:
"I am not sure." Whereupon Lucy asked: "Why do I love him?" Then ensued
the debate. Subliminal self said it was because he was a clean,
good-hearted, manly fellow. Lucy responded that he was too bashful. "He
is handsome," retorted subliminal self. "But there are times when he
grows so abashed that he is awkward." Subliminal self said he would
outgrow that. "But there are other men who are just as nice, just as
handsome, and just as clever, who are not so overwhelmingly shy," argued
Lucy. Whereat subliminal self drew itself up proudly and demanded: "Name
one!" And Lucy was like the person who can remember faces, but has no
memory at all for names.


II

Cousin Mary came to town as she had promised, and she made Cousin Jimmy
drop his work and follow her through the shops half the morning. Cousin
Mary was all that Cousin Jimmy had ever said of her. She was pretty and
she was genial. When these attributes are combined in a cousin they
invite confidences.

The two were standing on a corner, waiting for a swirl of foot
passengers, carriages and street-cars, to be untangled, when Mary heard
Jimmy making some remark about "Miss Putnam."

"So, she's the one, is she, Jimmy?"

"Well--er--I--I don't know. You see--"

"Certainly I see. Who wouldn't? Is she pretty, Jimmy?"

Jimmy saw a pathway through the crowd and led his cousin to the farther
curb before answering:

"Yes, she is very pretty."

"Tell me all about her. How long have you known her? How did you meet
her? Is she tall or short? Is she dark or fair? Is she musical? Oh, I am
just dying to know all about her!"

All the way down State Street Jimmy talked. All the way down State
Street he was urged on and aided and abetted by the questions and
comments of Cousin Mary, and when they had buffeted their way over
Jackson to Michigan Avenue and found breathing room, she turned to him
and asked pointedly:

"When is it to be?"

"When is what to be?"

"The wedding."

"Whose wedding?" Jimmy's tone was utterly innocent.

"Whose? Yours and Lucy's, to be sure."

"Mine and Lucy's? Why? Mary, I've never asked her yet."

"You've never asked her! Do you mean to tell me that when you can talk
about her for seven or eight blocks, as you have, you have not even
asked her to marry you? Why, James Trottingham Minton, you ought to be
ashamed of yourself! Where does this paragon of women live? Take me to
see her. I want to apologize for you."

"Won't it be better to get her to come in and lunch with us? She lives
so far out you'd miss your train east this afternoon."

"The very thing. Would she come?"

"Why, yes. I asked her the other night and she said she would."

"Then, why have you waited so long to tell me. Where are we to meet
her?"

"Well, I didn't know for sure what day you would be here, so I didn't
make any definite arrangement. I'm to let her know."

"Oh, Jimmy! Jimmy! You need a guardian, and not a guardian angel,
either. You need the other sort. You deserve hours of punishment for
your thoughtlessness. Now go right away and send her word that I am here
and dying to meet her."

"All right. We'll have lunch here at the Annex. You'll excuse me just a
moment, and I'll send her a telegram and ask her to come in."

"Yes, but hurry. You should have told her yesterday. When will you ever
learn how to be nice to a girl?"

Jimmy, feeling somehow that he had been guilty of a breach of courtesy
that should fill him with remorse, hastened to the telegraph desk and
scribbled a message to Lucy. It read:

"Please meet me and Mary at Annex at 2 o'clock."

"Rush that," he said to the operator.

The operator glanced over the message and grinned.

"Certainly, sir," he said. "This sort of a message always goes rush.
Wish you luck, sir."

The operator has not yet completely gathered the reason for the
reproving stare Jimmy gave him. In part it has been explained to him.
But, as Jimmy has said since, the man deserved censure for drawing an
erroneous conclusion from another's mistake.

It was then noon, so Jimmy and Mary, at Mary's suggestion, got an
appetite by making another tour of the shops. In the meantime a
snail-paced messenger boy was climbing the Putnam steps with the
telegram in his hand.


III

Lucy took the telegram from the boy and told him to wait until she saw
if there should be an answer. She tore off the envelope, unfolded the
yellow slip of paper, read the message, gasped, blushed and turned and
left the patient boy on the steps.

Into the house she rushed, calling to her mother. She thrust the
telegram into her hands, exclaiming:

"Read that! Isn't it what we might have expected?"

"Mercy! What is it? Who's dead?"

"Nobody! It's better than that," was Lucy's astonishing reply.

Mrs. Putnam read the telegram, and then beamingly drew her daughter to
her and kissed her. The two then wrote a message, after much counting of
words, to be sent to Jimmy. It read:

"Of course. Mama will come with me. Telephone to papa."

When this reached Jimmy he was nonplused. He rubbed his forehead,
studied the message, reread it, and then handed it to Mary with the
suggestion:

"Maybe you can make it out. I can't."

Mary knitted her brows and studied the message in turn. At length she
handed it back.

"It is simple," she decided. "She is a nice, sweet girl, and she wants
me to meet her mama and papa. Or maybe she wants us to be chaperoned."

So Jimmy and Mary waited in the hotel parlor until Lucy should arrive.
Reminded by Mary, Jimmy went to the 'phone and told Mr. Putnam that Lucy
was coming to lunch with him.

"Well, that's all right, isn't it, Jimmy?" Mr. Putnam asked.

"Yes. But she told me to telephone you."

"Why?"

"I don't know. But won't you join us?"

"Is that other matter arranged, Jimmy?"

"N-no. Not yet."

"I told you I didn't want to see you until it was. As soon as you wake
up, let me know. Good-by."

Jimmy, red, returned to the parlor, and there was confronted by a vision
of white, with shining eyes and pink cheeks, who rushed up to him and
kissed him and called him a dear old thing and said he was the
cleverest, most unconventional man that ever was.

Limp, astounded, but delighted, James Trottingham Minton drew back a
pace from Lucy Putnam, who, in her dainty white dress and her white hat
and filmy white veil, was a delectable sight.

"I want you to meet Cousin Mary," he said.

"Is she to attend?"

"Of course," he answered.

They walked toward the end of the long parlor where Mary was sitting,
but half way down the room they were stopped by Mrs. Putnam. She put
both hands on Jimmy's shoulders, gave him a motherly kiss on one cheek,
and sighed:

"Jimmy, you will be kind to my little girl?"

Jimmy looked from mother to daughter in dumb bewilderment. Certainly
this was the most remarkable conduct he ever had dreamed of. Yet, Mrs.
Putnam's smile was so affectionate and kind, her eyes met his with such
a tender look that he intuitively felt that all was right as right
should be. And yet--why should they act as they did?

Into the midst of his reflections burst Lucy's chum, Alice Jordan.

"I've a notion to kiss him, too!" she cried.

Jimmy stonily held himself in readiness to be kissed. If kissing went by
favor he was pre-eminently a favored one. But Lucy clutched his arm with
a pretty air of ownership and forbade Alice.

"Indeed, you will not. It wouldn't be good form now. After--afterward,
you may. Just once. Isn't that right, Jimmy?"

"Perfectly," he replied, his mind still whirling in an effort to adjust
actualities to his conception of what realities should be.

The four had formed a little group to themselves in the center of the
parlor, Lucy clinging to Jimmy's arm, Mrs. Putnam eying them both with a
happy expression, and Alice fluttering from one to the other, assuring
them that they were the handsomest couple she ever had seen, that they
ought to be proud of each other, and that Mrs. Putnam ought to be proud
of them, and that she was sure nobody in all the world ever, ever could
be as sublimely, beatifically happy as they would be, and that they must
be sure to let her come to visit them.

"And," she cried, admiringly, stopping to pat Jimmy on his unclutched
arm, "I just think your idea of proposing by telegraph was the brightest
thing I ever heard of!"

It is to be written to the everlasting credit of James Trottingham
Minton that he restrained himself from uttering the obvious remark on
hearing this. Two words from him would have wrecked the house of cards.
Instead, he blushed and smiled modestly. Slowly it was filtering into
his brain that by some unusual, unexpected, unprecedented freak of
fortune his difficulties had been overcome; that some way or other he
had proposed and had been accepted.

"I shall always cherish that telegram," Lucy declared, leaning more
affectionately toward Jimmy. "If that grimy-faced messenger boy had not
gone away so quickly with my answer I should have kissed him!"

"I've got the telegram here, dear," said Mrs. Putnam.

"Oh, let's see it again," Alice begged. "I always wanted to hear a
proposal, but it is some satisfaction to see one."

Mrs. Putnam opened her hand satchel, took out the telegram, unfolded it
slowly, and they all looked at it, Jimmy gulping down a great choke of
joy as he read:

"Please meet me and marry at Annex at two o'clock."

His bashfulness fell from him as a garment. He took the message, saying
he would keep it, so that it might not be lost. Then he piloted the two
girls and Mrs. Putnam to the spot where Mary had been waiting patiently
and wonderingly.

"Mary," he said boldly, without a tremor in his voice, "I want you to
meet the future Mrs. Minton, and my future mother-in-law, Mrs. Putnam,
and my future--what are you to me, anyhow, Alice?"

"I'm a combination flower girl, maid of honor and sixteen bridesmaids
chanting the wedding march," she laughed.

"And when," Mary gasped, "when is this to be?"

"At two o'clock," Lucy answered.

"Oh, Jimmy! You wretch! You never told me a word about it. But never
mind. I bought the very thing for a wedding gift this morning."

Jimmy tore himself away from the excited laughter and chatter, ran to
the telephone and got Mr. Putnam on the wire.

"This is Minton," he said.

"Who? Oh! Jimmy? Well?"

"Well, I've fixed that up."

"Good. And when is it to be?"

"Right away. Here at the Annex. I want you to go and get the license for
me on your way over."

"Come, come, Jimmy. Don't be in such precipitate haste."

"You told me that was the only way to arrange these matters."

"Humph! Did I? Well, I'll get the license for you--"

"Good-by, then. I've got to telephone for a minister."

The minister was impressed at once with the value of haste in coming,
and on his way back to the wedding party Jimmy stopped long enough to
hand a five-dollar bill to the telegraph operator.

"Thank you, sir," said the astonished man. "I have been worrying for
fear I had made a mistake about your message."

"You did. You made the greatest mistake of your life. Thank you!"




NATURAL PHILOSOPHY

BY WILLIAM HENRY DRUMMOND


  Very offen I be t'inkin' of de queer folks goin' roun',
    And way dey kip a-talkin' of de hard tam get along--
  May have plaintee money, too, an' de healt' be good an' soun'--
    But you'll fin' dere's alway somet'ing goin' wrong--
  'Course dere may be many reason w'y some feller ought to fret--
    But me, I'm alway singin' de only song I know--
  'Tisn't long enough for music, an' so short you can't forget,
    But it drive away de lonesome, an' dis is how she go,
  "Jus' tak' your chance, an' try your luck."

  Funny feller's w'at dey call me--"so diff'ren' from de res',"
    But ev'rybody got hees fault, as far as I can see--
  An' all de t'ing I'm doin', I do it for de bes',
    Dough w'en I'm bettin' on a race, dat's offen loss for me--
  "Oho!" I say, "Alphonse, ma frien', to-day is not your day,
    For more you got your money up, de less your trotter go--
  But never min' an' don't lie down," dat's w'at I alway say,
    An' sing de sam' ole song some more, mebbe a leetle slow--
  "Jus' tak' your chance, an' try your luck."

  S'pose ma uncle die an' lef me honder dollar, mebbe two--
    An' I don't tak' hees advice--me--for put heem on de bank--
  'Stead o' dat, some lot'rie ticket, to see w'at I can do,
    An' purty soon I'm findin' put dey're w'at you call de blank--
  Wall! de bank she might bus' up dere--somet'ing might go wrong--
    Dem feller, w'en dey get it, mebbe skip before de night--
  Can't tell--den w'ere's your money? So I sing ma leetle song
    An' don't boder wit' de w'isky, an' again I feel all right.
  "Jus' tak' your chance, an' try your luck."

  If you're goin' to mak' de marry, kip a look out on de eye,
    But no matter how you're careful, it was risky anyhow--
  An' if you're too unlucky, jus' remember how you try
    For gettin' dat poor woman, dough she may have got you now--
  All de sam', it sometam happen dat your wife will pass away--
    No use cryin', you can't help it--dere's your duty to you'se'f--
  You don't need to ax de neighbor, dey will tell you ev'ry day
    Start again lak hones' feller, for dere's plaintee woman lef'--
  "Jus' tak' your chance, an' try your luck."

  Poor man lak me, I'm not'ing: only w'en election's dere,
    An' ev'rybody's waitin' to ketch you by de t'roat--
  De money I be makin' den, wall! dot was mon affaire--
    An' affer all w'at diff'rence how de poor man mak' de vote?
  So I do ma very bes'--me--wit' de wife an' familee--
    On de church door Sunday morning, you can see us all parade--
  Len' a frien' a half a dollar, an' never go on spree--
    So w'en I'm comin' die--me--no use to be afraid--
  "Jus' tak' your chance, an' try your luck."




HOW I SPOKE THE WORD

FRANK L. STANTON


  The snow come down in sheets of white
    An' made the pine trees shiver;
  'Peared like the world had said good night
    An' crawled beneath the kiver.

  The river's shiny trail wuz gone--
    The winds sung out a warnin';
  The mountains put their nightcaps on
    An' said: "Good-by till mornin'!"

  'Twuz jest the night in fiel' an' wood
    When cabin homes look cozy,
  An' fine oak fires feel mighty good,
    An' women's cheeks look rosy.

  An' that remin's me. We wuz four,
    A-settin' by the fire;
  But still it 'peared ten mile or more
    Betwixt me an' Maria!

  "No, sir!" (I caught that eye of his,
    An' then I fit and floundered!)
  "The thing I want to tell you is--"
    Says he: "The old mare's _foundered_?"

  "No, sir! it ain't about no hoss!"
    (My throat begin to rattle!)
  "I see," he said, "another loss
    In them fine Jersey cattle!"

  An' then I lost my patience! Then
    I hollered high and higher
  (You could 'a' heard me down the glen):
    "_No, sir! I want Maria!_"

  "An' now," says I, "the shaft'll strike:
    He'll let _that_ statement stay so!"
  He looked at me astonished-like,
    Then yelled: "_Why didn't you say so?_"




THE UNIVERSITY INTELLIGENCE OFFICE

BY JOHN KENDRICK BANGS


"Mr. Brief," said the Idiot the other morning as the family of Mrs.
Smithers-Pedagog gathered at the breakfast table, "don't you want to be
let in on the ground floor of a sure thing?"

"I do if there's no cellar under it to fall into when the bottom drops
out," smiled Mr. Brief. "What's up? You going into partnership with Mr.
Rockefeller?"

"No," said the Idiot. "There isn't any money in that."

"What?" cried the Bibliomaniac. "No money in a partnership with
Rockefeller?"

"Not a cent," said the Idiot. "After paying Mr. Rockefeller his dividend
of 105 per cent. of the gross receipts and deducting expenses from
what's left, you'd find you owed him money. My scheme is to start an
entirely new business--one that's never been thought of before
apparently--incorporate it at $100,000, of which I am to receive $51,000
in stock for the idea, $24,000 worth of shares to go to Mr. Brief for
legal services and the balance to be put on the market at 45."

"That sounds rich," said Mr. Brief. "I might devote an hour of my time
to your scheme some rainy Sunday afternoon when there is nothing else to
do, for that amount of stock, provided, of course, your scheme has no
State's Prison string tied to it."

"There isn't even a county jail at the end of it," observed the Idiot.
"It's clean, clear and straight. It will fill a long felt want, and, as
I see it, ought to pay fifty percent dividends the first year. They say
figures don't lie, and I am in possession of some that tell me I've got
a bonanza in my University Intelligence Office Company."

"The title sounds respectable," said Mr. Whitechoker. "What is it, Mr.
Idiot--a sort of University Settlement Scheme?"

"Well--yes," said the Idiot. "It is designed to get University graduates
settled, if you can call that a University Settlement Scheme. To put it
briefly, it's an Intelligence Office for College graduates where they
may go for the purpose of getting a job, just as our cooks, and butlers
and valets and the rest do. If there's money in securing a place at good
wages for the ladies who burn our steaks and promote indigestion for us,
and for the gentlemen who keep our trousers pressed and wear out our
linen, I don't see why there wouldn't be money in an institution which
did the same thing for the struggling young bachelor of arts who is
thrown out of the arms of Alma Mater on to the hands of a cold and
unappreciative world."

"At last!" cried the Doctor. "At last I find sanity in one of your
suggestions. That idea of yours, Mr. Idiot, is worthy of a genius. I
have a nephew just out of college and what on earth to do with him
nobody in the family can imagine. He doesn't seem to be good for
anything except sitting around and letting his hair grow long."

"That isn't much of a profession, is it," said the Idiot. "What does he
want to do?"

"That's the irritating part of it," observed the Doctor. "When I asked
him the other night what he intended to do for a living he said he
hadn't made up his mind yet between becoming a motor-man or the Editor
of the South American Review. That's a satisfactory kind of an answer,
eh? Especially when the family income is hardly big enough to keep the
modern youth in neckties."

"I don't believe any Intelligence Office in creation could do anything
for a man like that," sneered the Bibliomaniac. "What that young man
needs is a good sound spanking, and I'd like to give it to him."

"All right," said the Doctor with a laugh. "I'll see that you have the
chance. If you'll go out to my sister's with me some time next week I'll
introduce you to Bill and you can begin."

"Why don't you do it yourself, Doctor?" asked the Idiot, noting the
twinkle in the Doctor's eye.

"I'm too busy," laughed the Doctor. "Besides I only weigh one hundred
and twenty pounds and Bill is six feet two inches high and weighs two
hundred and ten pounds stripped. I think if I were armed with a
telegraph pole and Bill with only a tooth-pick as a weapon of defense he
could thrash me with ease. However, if Mr. Bib wants to try it--"

"Send Bill to us, Doctor," said the Idiot. "I sort of like Bill and I'll
bet the University Intelligence Office will get him a job in forty-eight
hours. A man who is willing to mote or Edit has an adaptability that
ought to locate him permanently somewhere."

"I don't quite see," said Mr. Brief, "just how you are going to work
your scheme, Mr. Idiot. I must confess I should regard Bill as a pretty
tough proposition."

"Not at all," said the Idiot. "The only trouble with Bill is that he
hasn't found himself yet. He's probably one of those easy-going, popular
youngsters who've devoted their college days to growing. Just at present
he's got more vitality than brains. I imagine from his answer to the
Doctor that he is a good-natured hulks who could get anything he wanted
in college except a scholarship. I haven't any doubt that he was beloved
of all his classmates and was known to his fellows as Old Hoss, or
Beefy Bill or Blue-eyed Billie and could play any game from Muggins to
Pit like a hero of a Bret Harte romance."

"You've sized Bill up all right," said the Doctor. "He is just that, but
he has brains. The only trouble is he's been saving them up for a rainy
day and now when the showers are beginning he doesn't know how to use
'em. How would you go about getting him a job, Mr. Idiot?"

"Bill ought to go into the publishing business," said the Idiot. "He was
cut out for a book-agent. He has a physique which, to begin with, would
command respectful attention for anything he might have to say
concerning the wares he had to sell. He seems to have, from your brief
description of him, that suavity of manner which would surely secure his
admittance into the houses of the _elite_, and his sense of humor I
judge to be sufficiently highly developed to enable him to make a sale
wherever he felt there was the remotest chance. Is he handsome?"

"I am told he looks like me," said the Doctor, pleasantly.

"Oh, well," rejoined the Idiot, "good looks aren't essential after all.
It would be better though if he were a man of fine presence. If he's big
and genial, as you suggest, he can carry off his deficiencies in
personal pulchritude."

The Doctor flushed a trifle. "Oh, Bill isn't so plain," he observed
airily. "There's none of your sissy beauty about Bill, I grant you,
but--oh, well"--here the Doctor twirled his mustache complacently.

"I should think the place for Bill would be on the trolley," sneered the
Bibliomaniac.

"No, sir," returned the Idiot. "Never. Geniality never goes on the
trolley. In the first place it isn't appreciated by the Management and
in the second place it is a dangerous gift for a motor-man. I had a
friend once--a college graduate of very much Bill's kind--who went on
the trolley as a Conductor at seven dollars a week and, by Jingo, would
you believe it, all his friends waited for his car and of course he
never asked any of 'em for their fare. Gentlemen, he used to say,
welcome to my car. This is on me."

"Swindled the Company by letting his friends ride free, eh?" said the
Bibliomaniac.

"Never," said the Idiot. "Pete was honest and he rung 'em up same as
anybody and of course had to settle with the Treasurer at the end of the
trip. On his first month he was nine dollars out. Then he couldn't bring
himself to ask a lady for money, and if a passenger looked like a sport
Pete would offer to match him for his fare--double or quits. Consequence
was he lost money steadily. All the hard luck people used to ride with
him, too, and one night--it was a bitter night in December and everybody
in the car was pretty near frozen--Pete stopped his car in front of the
Fifth Avenue Hotel and invited everybody on board to come in and have a
wee nippy. All except two old ladies and a Chinaman accepted and of
course the reporters got hold of it, told the story in the papers and
Pete was bounced. I don't think the average college graduate is quite
suited by temperament for the trolley service."

"All of which is intensely interesting," observed the Bibliomaniac, "but
I don't see how it helps to make your University Intelligence Office
Company convincing."

"It helps in this way," explained the Idiot. "We shall have a Board of
Inspectors made up of men with some knowledge of human nature who will
put these thousands of young graduates through a cross-examination to
find out just what they can do. Few of 'em have the slightest idea of
that and they'll gladly pay for the assistance we propose to give them
when they have discovered that they have taken the first real step
toward securing a useful and profitable occupation. If a Valedictorian
comes into the University Intelligence Office and applies for a job
we'll put him through a third degree examination and if we discover in
him those restful qualities which go to the making of a good plumber,
we'll set about finding him a job in a plumbing establishment. If a
Greek Salutatorian in search of a position has the sweep of arm and
general uplift of manner that indicates a useful career as a
window-washer, we will put him in communication with those who need just
such a person."

"How about the coldly supercilious young man who knows it all and wishes
to lead a life of elegant leisure, yet must have wages?" asked the
Bibliomaniac. "Our Colleges are turning out many such."

"He's the easiest proposition in the bunch," replied the Idiot. "If they
were all like that our fortunes would be established in a week."

"In what way?" persisted the Bibliomaniac.

"In two ways," replied the Idiot. "Such persons are constantly in demand
as Janitors of cheap apartment houses which are going up with marvelous
rapidity on all sides of us, and as Editors of ten-cent magazines, of
which on the average there are, I believe, five new ones started every
day of the year, including Saturdays, Sundays and legal holidays."

"I say, Mr. Idiot," said the Doctor later. "That was a bully idea of
yours about the University Intelligence Office. It would be a lot of
help to the thousands of youngsters who are graduated every year--but I
don't think it's practicable just yet. What I wanted to ask you is if
you could help me with Bill?"

"Certainly I can," said the Idiot.

"Really?" cried the Doctor.

"Yes, indeed," said the Idiot. "I can help you a lot."

"How? What shall I do?" asked the Doctor.

"Take my advice," whispered the Idiot. "Let Bill alone. He'll find
himself. You can tell that by his answer."

"Oh!" said the Doctor, lapsing into solemnity. "I thought you could give
me a material suggestion as to what to do with the boy."

"Ah! You want something specific, eh?" said the Idiot.

"Yes," said the Doctor.

"Well--get him a job as a Campaign Speaker. This is a great year for the
stump," said the Idiot.

"That isn't bad," said the Doctor. "Which side?"

"Either," said the Idiot. "Or both. Bill has adaptability and, between
you and me, from what I hear on the street _both_ sides are going to win
this year. If they do, Bill's fortune is made."




THE COUNTRY SCHOOL

ANONYMOUS


  Put to the door--the school's begun--
  Stand in your places every one,--
  Attend,----

       *       *       *       *       *

  Read in the Bible,--tell the place,--
  _Job twentieth and the seventeenth varse_--
  Caleb, begin. _And--he--shall--suck_--
  _Sir,--Moses got a pin and stuck_--
  Silence,--stop Caleb--Moses! here!
  What's this complaint? _I didn't, Sir_,--
  Hold up your hand,--What, is't a pin?
  _O dear, I won't do so again._
  Read on. _The increase of his h-h-horse_--
  Hold: H,O,U,S,E, spells house.
  _Sir, what's this word? for I can't tell it._
  Can't you indeed! Why, spell it. _Spell it._
  Begin yourself, I say. _Who, I?_
  Yes, try. Sure you can spell it. _Try._
  Go, take your seats and primers, go,
  You sha'n't abuse the Bible so.

    _Will pray Sir Master mend my pen?_
  Say, Master, that's enough.--Here Ben,
  Is this your copy? Can't you tell?
  Set all your letters parallel.
  _I've done my sum--'tis just a groat_--
  Let's see it.--_Master, m' I g' out?_
  Yes, bring some wood in--What's that noise?
  _It isn't I, Sir, it's them boys._--

    Come, Billy, read--What's that? _That's A_--
  _Sir, Jim has snatch'd my rule away_--
  Return it, James.--Here rule with this--
  Billy, read on,--_That's crooked S._
  Read in the spelling-book--Begin--
  _The boys are out_--Then call them in--
  _My nose bleeds, mayn't I get some ice,_
  _And hold it in my breeches?_--Yes.
  John, keep your seat. _My sum is more_--
  Then do't again--Divide by four,
  By twelve, and twenty--Mind the rule.
  Now speak, Manasseh, and spell tool.
  _I can't--Well try--T,W,L._
  Not wash'd your hands yet, booby, ha?
  You had your orders yesterday.
  Give me the ferule, hold your hand.
  _Oh! Oh!_ There,--mind my next command.

    The grammar read. Tell where the place is.
  _C sounds like K in cat and cases._
  _My book is torn._ The next--_Here not_--
  E final makes it long--say note.
  What are the stops and marks, Susannah?
  _Small points, Sir._--And how many, Hannah?
  _Four, Sir._ How many, George? _You look:_
  _Here's more than fifty in my book._
  How's this? Just come, Sam? _Why, I've been_--
  Who knocks? _I don't know, Sir._ Come in.
  "Your most obedient, Sir?" and yours.
  Sit down, Sir. Sam, put to the doors.

  What do you bring to tell that's new!
  "Nothing that's either strange or true.
  What a prodigious school! I'm sure
  You've got a hundred here, or more.
  A word, Sir, if you please." I will--
  You girls, till I come in be still.

    "Come, we can dance to-night--so you
  Dismiss your brain-distracting crew,
  And come--for all the girls are there,
  We'll have a fiddle and a player."
  Well, mind and have the sleigh-bells sent,
  I'll soon dismiss my regiment.

    Silence! The second class must read.
  As quick as possible--proceed.
  Not found your book yet? Stand--be fix'd--
  The next read, stop--the next--the next.
  You need not read again, 'tis well.
  Come, Tom and Dick, choose sides to spell.
  _Will this word do?_ Yes, Tom spell dunce.
  Sit still there all you little ones.
  _I've got a word_,--Well, name it. _Gizzard._
  You spell it, Sampson--_G_,_I_,_Z_.
  Spell conscience, Jack. _K_,_O_,_N_,
  _S_,_H_,_U_,_N_,_T_,_S_.--Well done!
  Put out the next--_Mine is folks._
  Tim, spell it--_P_,_H_,_O_,_U_,_X_.
  O shocking. Have you all tried? _No._
  Say Master, but no matter, go--
  Lay by your books--and you, Josiah,
  Help Jed to make the morning fire.




EVAN ANDERSON'S POKER PARTY

BY BENJAMIN STEVENSON


"Evan Anderson called you up this afternoon," said Mrs. Tom Porter,
laying down the evening paper. "Is his wife still away?"

"Yes, I think she is. What did he want?"

"He did not say, but he said for you to call him as soon as you came
home. I forgot to tell you." Mrs. Porter paused and fingered her paper
with embarrassment. "Tom," she began again, "if it is another of those
men parties he has been having since his wife has been away, I wish you
wouldn't go."

"Why not, dear?"

"I don't think they are very nice. Don't they drink a good deal?"

"Some men will drink a good deal any way--any time, but those that don't
want to do not."

"Tom, do they"--Mrs. Porter's eyes were on the paper in her lap--"do
they play--play poker?"

"Why what made you ask me that question?" Tom answered with some
embarrassment.

"Mrs. Bob Miller said her husband told her they did."

"Nobody but Mrs. Miller would believe all that Bob says."

"But you know it is wicked to gamble?"

"Of course it is, to gamble for any amount, but just a little game for
amusement, that's not bad."

"How much does any one win or lose?"

"Oh, just a few dollars."

"That would buy a dinner for several poor families that need it; but the
worst of it is the principle; it is gambling, no matter how little is
lost or won."

"But, dear, you brought home a ten-dollar plate from a card party the
other afternoon."

"That is different. One is euchre, the other is poker."

"I see there is a difference; but wouldn't the plate have bought a few
dinners?"

"Yes, but if I had not won it some one else would. And it was too late
to spend it for charity. I don't believe it cost ten dollars anyway."

"You said then it would."

"But I have looked it over since and do not believe it is genuine. I
should think any one would be _ashamed_ to give an imitation," she added
with something like a flash in her blue eyes.

"It was a shame," Tom admitted, "a ten-dollar strain for a two-dollar
plate."

But Mrs. Porter merely raised her eyebrows at this rather mean remark.

"The Tad-Wallington dance is to-night, isn't it? Do you want to go to
that?" Tom asked.

"No, I'm not going."

"If you do," Tom went on, "I will take you and cut out whatever Evan
wants."

"No, I don't care to," she repeated. "You can go to the other if you
want to. I am not going to say any more on the subject. I do not ask you
to humor my little whims, but I wanted to say what I did before you
telephoned."

Mrs. Porter looked at her husband with such a wistful, pathetic little
smile that Tom came over and kissed her on the cheek.

"I'll not _go_," he exclaimed, "if that _is_ what he wants. I'll stay at
home with you."

"You are too good, Tom. I suspect I am silly, but it seems so wicked.
Now you had better call him up."

When Tom got upstairs, he placed the receiver to his ear.

Telephone: ("Number?")

Tom: "Give me seven-eleven, please."

("Seven-double-one?")

"Yes, please." Tom whistled while he waited.

Telephone: ("Hello.")

"Is that you, Evan?"

("Yes. Hello, Tom. Say, Tom, I am going to have a little bunch around
here after a bit to see if we can't make our books balance, and I want
you to come. And say, bring around that forty-five you took away with
you last time. We want it. We are after you. We are going to strip you.
Perhaps you had better bring an extra suit in a case.")

"I am sorry, old man, but I can't come."

("Can't what?")

"Can't come."

("'Y, you tight wad. You'd better come.")

"Can't do it, Andy. I'm sorry."

("Are you going to the Tad-Wallington dance?")

"No, not that. Mis'es doesn't want to go, but I simply can't come."

Sarcastically. ("I guess the Mis'es shut down on this, too.")

"No, I'm tired."

("Well, maybe we're not tired--of you taking money away from us. And now
when we've all got a hunch that you are going to lose you get cold
feet.")

"No, I'd like to, but I _just can't_."

("Well, admit, like a man, it's the Mis'es said no and I'll let you
off.")

"Are you a mind-reader?"

("No, but I'm married.")

"You win."

("Well, I'm sorry you can't be with us. Christmas will be coming along
bye and bye, and you will need the money.")

"I expect."

("Mis'es will want a present, and she ought to let you get a little more
ahead.")

"That's true."

("Well, so long. Toast your feet before you go to bed. And you'd better
put a cloth around your neck.")

"Here, don't rub it in. It hurts me worse than you."

("All right. I know you are as sorry as we are. I know how it is. My
Mis'es will be at home next week and this will be the last one, so I
wanted you to come. Good-by.")

"Good-by. Oh, say! Wait a minute. I've got an idea."

("Good; use it.")

"Wait now. Wait now, I am thinking." Tom was trying to recall if he had
closed the parlor door when he came upstairs. "Yes, I think I did."

("Think you did what?")

"Nothing. I wasn't talking to you. I was thinking. Say, put your ear
close to the telephone. I've got to talk low."

("Why, I have got the thing right against my ear anyway. What are you
talking about?")

"Listen. This is the scheme. I'll come if I can," he whispered into the
receiver. "I don't think the Mis'es wants to go to the Tad-Wallington
dance, and I'll work it so that I shall go alone. If I succeed I'll be
with you."

("What? What's that?")

"I say," he repeated more distinctly, "if Mrs. P. doesn't want to go to
the dance I'll try to go by myself and shall be with you."

("You say that you and Mrs. P. are going to the dance.")

"Oh, you deaf fool! No! I say that if she _doesn't_ go to the dance
maybe I shall--_be_--_with_--_you_."

("Oh, I understand you. Good. If you are as clever as you are at getting
every one in against a pat full-house you will succeed. Come early. Luck
to you. Good-by.")

If Tom were right in thinking he had closed the parlor door he was
considerably surprised and flustered to find it ajar when he came down
stairs. But Mrs. Porter was still reading the evening paper and did not
look as if she had been disturbed by the telephoning. There was a slight
flush on her cheeks, however, that he had not noticed before, but that
may have been caused by the noble sacrifice of his own wishes for hers.

"I am glad, Tom, you told him you could not come," Mrs. Porter said,
looking at him affectionately. "It is so good of you to give up to my
little whims."

Tom said mentally: "I guess she did not hear it all, at least."

"I know," she went on, "that I was brought up on a narrow plane, and any
sort of gambling seems wicked."

"But at first you would not play cards at all, and then you learned
euchre. All games of cards look alike to me."

"I suppose they do, but euchre is a simple, interesting pastime; whist
is a scientific--a--a--mental--exercise, developing the mind, and so
forth, while poker cheats people out of their money,--at least, they
lose money they ought to use other ways,--or else they win some and then
have ill-gotten gains, which is worse."

"But poker is a great nerve developer," Tom protested feebly.

"But it's gambling."

"Well, how about playing euchre for a prize?"

"Oh we settled that a while ago," Mrs. Porter exclaimed. "I showed you
the difference between the two, didn't I?"

"I believe you did. But don't you want to go to the Tad-Wallington
dance?"

"No." Mrs. Porter said shortly.

"Did you send cards?"

"No."

"You should have done so, shouldn't you?"

"I suppose so, but I don't care."

"Why don't you want to go?"

"I don't like Mrs. Tad-Wallington. She wears her dresses too low."

"Maybe she does, but I think we should be polite to her."

"I don't care very much whether we are or not."

"_I_ think we ought to go. Or else," he added in an afterthought with
the expression of a martyr, "or else _I_ ought to go and take your
regrets."

"Well, why don't you do that?" Mrs. Porter exclaimed brightly.

"All right, I will!" he almost shouted. "I'll _do_ it. I think it's the
decent thing to do. I'll get ready right away."

"Right now? Why, it's entirely too early. It's only half-past seven. You
can stay here until ten, then go for a few minutes and be back by
eleven."

"No, no, that would not be nice. That's not the way to treat people who
have gone to the expense of giving a dance. Everybody should go early
and stay late."

"Oh, absurd."

"No, it's decent. I think I had better go early anyway, and then I can
get back earlier. I don't want to stay up too late."

"Well, if you insist, go on."

Tom went upstairs and began dressing hurriedly. He knew he would not
feel safe until he was a square away from the house. If this was to be
the last of these bully, bachelor, poker parties he did not want to miss
it. His wife was the sweetest little woman on earth, and he delighted in
being with her, and humoring her, but then a woman's view of life and
things is often so different that there is a joyous relaxation in a man
party. If he could dress and get away before his wife changed her mind
all would be well. He put his clothes on feverishly, but before he had
half finished he heard her running up the stairs, and his heart sank.
She came with the step that indicated something important on her mind.
He knew as well how she looked as if he could see her coming. She was
humped over slightly, her head was down, both hands grasping her skirts
in front, and her feet fairly glimmering at the speed she was coming.

She burst into the room. "Tom, I think I will go with you. It is mean of
me to make you go alone."

"You think what? You can't, it's a men's party. Oh, you--'Y, no, it's
not mean. I don't mind it a bit. I like to go alone--that is, I don't
mind it, and I won't hear to your putting yourself out on my account.
And then you know, Mrs. Tad-Wallington wears her dresses so disgustingly
low."

"That's it, Tom. That's why I think I ought to go."

"Oh, pshaw. You know I despise her. I never dance with her. No, I can't
think of letting you go on my account. And I don't want my wife even to
be seen at the party of a woman who wears such dresses as she does. No!
positively, I can't permit it."

"Well, it's as bad for you to go."

"But one of us has to go to be decent. It would be rude not to, and we
can not afford to be rude even to the commonest people."

"I don't want you to go unless I go with you," she said pettishly.

"But I never dance with her."

"It is not that so much. I do not want us to recognize her at all."

"I am not going to even _speak_ to her. I will snub her. I will walk by
her and not see her. I will let her know that my little wife doesn't
belong to her class. I'll show her."

"But, Tom, wouldn't that be ruder than not going at all?"

"Oh, no. I don't think so. By going and snubbing her, it shows that you
are conforming to all the _laws_ of politeness without conceding
anything to wanton impropriety. Don't you see?"

"Hardly."

"Well, it does. And I have to go for business reasons. I have her
husband's law business, and can't afford to lose it by not going."

"Wouldn't it make her husband angry for you to snub her?"

"Oh, no, it would rather please him. He is inclined to be jealous, and
likes the men better who don't have anything to do with her. It would
strengthen our business relations immensely."

"Maybe you are right," she added with resignation. "You lawyers have
such peculiar arguments that I can't understand them."

"Yes, I know. Law is the science of reasoning--of getting at the fine,
subtile points which other people can not see."

"Well, go, if you really think it's best," she said at last.

Tom tied a black bow around his collar and put on his tuxedo.

"Oh, Tom, what do you mean? You surely do not intend to wear your tuxedo
and a black tie. I heard you say it was the worst of form at anything
but a men's party."

"Oh, ah, did I? Well, maybe I did. I had forgotten. I became a little
confused by our long argument. I am always confused after an argument.
Would you believe it, the other day after an argument in court I put on
the judge's overcoat when I came away and did not notice it until I got
to the office? You think I had better wear a long coat and white tie?"

"Of course. I want you to be the best-dressed man there. I don't want
you to look as if you were at a smoker."

Tom wheeled toward his wife, but she was digging in a drawer for his
white tie and may not have meant anything.

"Now don't tell me you have none. Here is one fresh and crisp. You would
not disgrace us by going to a dance dressed that way?" she pleaded.

"I will do whatever you say, dear," Tom answered, with a trace of
suspicion still in his eye.

He put on his long coat and the tie, and when he kissed his wife adieu
she patted him affectionately on the cheek.

"It is good of you to go to this old dance and let me stay at home," she
said, smiling sweetly at him. "Have as good a time as you can and be
sure to see what Mrs. Harris wears."

When Tom got into the street he drew a long breath of fresh air, and
then lighted a cigarette to quiet his nerves.

"I've got to go to that party for a few minutes," he said to himself,
"or I may get caught when I come to take my examination to-morrow
morning. I can't possibly make up a whole lot about dresses. And then
some woman may tell Ruth that I was not there. Let's see," he looked at
his watch, "it's nearly nine. Some people will be there. I can look them
over and then take a few notes about the dressing-room as I come away."

Tom paused but a moment in the dressing-room, where a few oldish men
waited for their fat, rejuvenated wives, and some young stags smoked
cigarettes until the buds could get up to the hall.

The young Mrs. Tad-Wallington received him with a gracious smile and
inquired for Mrs. Porter.

"A blinding headache," said Tom. "She was determined to come until the
last minute, but then had to give it up."

The old Mr. Tad-Wallington took one hand from behind his back to give it
to Tom, and for a moment almost lost that tired, married-to-a-young-woman
look.

"How a' you, Tom?" he said. "Did you find out anything about that
Barnesville business? Can you levy on Harmon's property?"

"I haven't looked any further, but I still think you can."

"Call me up as soon as you find out."

Tom was pushed away by a large wife with a little husband whom the
hostess was presenting to Mr. Tad-Wallington, and this couple was
followed by an extremely tall man who had apparently become
stoop-shouldered talking to his very small wife. Tom sidled around where
he could see the people as they came, and began making mental notes.

"Mrs. Tad-Wallington, dressed in a kind of silverish flowered--brocaded,
I guess--stuff, with a bunch of white carnations--no, little roses.
Blond hair done up with a kind of a roach that lops over at one side of
her forehead." "There are our namesakes, the John Porters. Mrs. John has
a banana colored dress with a sort of mosquito netting all over it.
She's got one red rose pinned on in front." "There are the three Long
sisters, one pink, one white, and one blue. Pink and white are fluffy
goods. But Ruth'll not care how girls are dressed. It's the women."
"Here's a queen in black. Who is it? Oh, Lord! I am sorry I saw her
face. It's Mrs. May ----, the Irish washerwoman, as Ruth calls her. And
who's the Cleopatra with the silver snake around her arm, and the silver
do-funnies around her waist? Oh, Bess Smith! I am getting so many
details I'll have 'em all mixed up the first thing I know. Let me see,
who had on the red dress? Ding, I've forgotten. I'd better write them
down."

He got a card from his pocket and began writing abbreviated descriptions
on it. "Mrs. R. strp. slk." "Mrs. J. J. white; h. of a long train." "Sm.
Small brt. Mrs. Jones, wid." He filled up two cards and then slipped to
the dressing-room and away.

"Solomon could not beat that trick. I can tell Sweetheart more than she
could have found out herself if she had come. Now for something that's a
little more fun." He chuckled at his cleverness as he stepped on a car
to go the faster to his more fascinating party.

And he chuckled the following morning as he dressed.

"They were going to strip me, were they," he said to himself, as he
pulled a small roll of bills from the vest pocket of his dress suit.
"Well, not quite. Let me see. I had nineteen dollars with me. Now I have
five, ten, and ten are twenty, and five are twenty-five, twenty-six,
twenty-seven, twenty-eight, and two are thirty, thirty-one. And some
change. That's not stripping, anyway."

He laughed again as he pulled two cards from his pocket and saw his
memoranda of dresses.

"Good thought. I'd better read them over, for the morning paper may
contain some description, and I'd like to make good. 'Mrs. Paton, wht.
slk.' white silk. 'Mrs. Mull, d. t.' d. t.? What does d. t. stand for?
d. t.? I can't think of anything but delirium tremens, but that's not
it. D. t. Dark--dark what? Dark trous--No. Dark tresses? Not that,
either. Dark--trousseau? Hardly that. She's just married, but she didn't
have her whole trousseau on. Dark--? Search me, I don't know. 'Mrs. B.'
Mrs. Brown, 'l. d.' Long dress? Lawn dress? No, lavender dress, I
remember. This cipher is worse than the one in the 'Gold Bug.' I wish I
had written it out."

Some of the things he could interpret and some he could not, but he
could remember none when he took his eyes away from the card.

He found his wife waiting for him in the breakfast room, dressed in a
blue tea-gown, and she looked so charming that he could not refrain from
taking two kisses from her red lips. She put her arms around his neck
and took one of them back again.

"How are you this morning? Did you have a good time at the dance?"

"Oh, so-so," Tom answered. "I've had better."

"Breakfast is ready. Now tell me all about it while we eat."

"Well, it was just like all others. Same people there, dressed about the
same. I was in hopes you would read about it in the morning paper and
let me off. That would give you a better account of it than I can."

"But I want to hear about it from your point of view. Did anything of
any special importance happen? Whom did you dance with?"

There was a sharp questioning look in Mrs. Porter's eyes, that Tom, if
he noticed it at all, took in a masculine way to indicate a touch of
jealousy.

"No, nothing of any note. I danced with about the same people I do
usually. Mrs. DeBruler, I think."

"You think? That's complimentary to her. How was she dressed?"

"Oh, ah; (mentally) 'bl. slk.' Blue silk or black silk, which was it?
(Aloud) Blue silk, I think."

"Blue silk! My, she oughtn't to wear blue. What's that card you have in
your hand, your program?"

"Yes, I wanted to see whom else I danced with."

"Oh, let me see," Mrs. Porter exclaimed.

"Well, it is--that is, I was just looking for my program. I can't find
it. I must have lost it."

"Oh, that is too bad. I wanted to see it. Did you dance many dances?"

"No, not many. Just a few people we are under obligations to."

"How late did you stay?" Mrs. Porter asked, as she passed him his second
cup of coffee.

"About midnight, I think."

"Oh, where were you after that? You didn't get home until after one."

"M'm, my, this coffee's hot! One? Did you say one? The clock must have
been striking half-past eleven."

"No, I am sure it was after one, because I laid awake for a while and
heard it strike two."

"May be you are right. I did not look. But lots of people were still
there when I left. Do you like the two-step better than the waltz?"

"Yes, I do. But that was on Sunday--after twelve o'clock. Weren't you
ashamed to dance on Sunday?"

"I think I like the waltz better. The waltz is to the two-step what the
minuet is to the jig. Don't you think so now? Young Mrs. Black is a
splendid waltzer. Next to you, she is about the best."

"Well, I do not care to be compared with her. And I hope you didn't
dance with her. She, divorced and married again, and not twenty-four
yet!"

"I don't see as much harm in a young woman being divorced as an old
one."

"I do. They ought to live together long enough to know if their troubles
are real."

"Hers were."

"I always thought Mr. Hughes was real nice. Did you find your program?"

"No, I must have lost it."

They rose from the breakfast table and went, arm in arm, to the
sitting-room. They divided the morning paper and sat in silence for a
while. Tom went over the first page, read the prospects for war between
Russia and Japan, then the European despatches, and then came to the
page with the city news. He glanced carelessly over it, seeing little to
attract him. By and by his eyes returned to a column that he had passed
because calamities did not interest him, something about an explosion.
When he came to it the second time his eyes fell on one of the
subheadings and it made him catch his breath. He read the headlines from
the top.

"Great Heavens!" he said to himself, and shot a glance at his wife from
the corners of his eyes. "Lord, I am in for it."

The heading that he saw was:

      _Terrific Explosion at a Ball._
          _Panic Barely Averted._
  _Mrs. Tad-Wallington's Dance Interrupted._
  _Fire Ensued, but no Great Damage Done._
      _Many of the Women Fainted._

He then read the article through to see if there was any loop-hole, but
found that the explosion had occurred, perhaps, before he was five
squares away--about a quarter of ten, in fact. And he had admitted to
his wife that he had stayed there until late at night!

"She mustn't see this page," he said to himself. "I must get it out of
here and burn it."

He glanced at his wife again. She was reading her sheet interestedly. He
separated the part that contained the city news and was preparing to
smuggle it from the room under his coat.

"Here is the account of the dance," she exclaimed, looking up, "and you
need not tell me any more--"

"The what!"

"The dance, and I can read all--"

"Did we get two papers this morning?" Tom stammered, feeling cold about
the heart.

"No, I have the society sheet, and it tells what everybody wore--Why,
what is the matter with you, Tom? You look sick. You are not sick, are
you, Tom?" she asked, rising and coming over to him.

"No, no, I am not sick. I am all right. Go on and read the description
of the dresses; that will relieve me more than anything else. I'll not
have to think it all up."

"Oh, but you look sick."

"I am not; I am--I never was so well. See how strong I am. I can crush
that piece of paper up into a very small ball with my bare hands. I am
awfully strong."

"Oh, don't do that. There may be something in it that I want to read."

"No, there isn't. There's nothing in it. I read it through. I have an
idea. I'll tell you what let's do. Let's burn the paper and I'll tell
you what the women wore. These society notes are written beforehand and
are not authentic. The only way is to have it from an eye-witness.
Let's do it, will you?"

"No, I would rather read it. Aren't you sick, Tom? What makes your brow
so damp?"

"It's so hot, it's infernally hot in here."

"I thought it was rather cold. I saw you shiver a moment ago. Tom, you
_are_ sick. You must have eaten too much salad last night. You know you
can't eat salad."

"I didn't touch any salad. I only ate a frankfurter and drank a
high-ball--"

"A frankfurter and a high-ball! Why, what sort of refreshments did they
have?"

"I didn't mean that. I meant a canary-bird sandwich and a glass of
water."

"I know what it is then, Tom. You inhaled a lot of the smoke."

Tom took a long hard look at his wife. "What!" he almost screamed at
last.

"I say you have inhaled too much smoke. You have been smoking too much."

"Oh, that. Yes, I expect I have."

She looked at him with a twinkle in her eye as she sat on the arm of his
chair, holding to the back with her hands.

"Tom, I'll bet you are a great hero."

"I'll bet I'm not."

"I'll bet you are, and are too modest to admit it."

"Too modest to admit what?"

"Too modest to admit the heroic things you have done."

"I never did any."

"Yes, you did. I know you saved two or three people's lives at the risk
of your own."

"I haven't any medals."

"But you must have done something brave, and that's why you didn't tell
me about the explosion."

Tom did not answer. The machinery of his voice would not turn. The power
ran through his throat like cogwheels out of gear.

"My dear, sweet, brave, modest husband."

"I--I'm not all of that."

"Yes you are. You were the bravest man there. How many fainting women
did you rescue?"

"Oh, not many. I think only five or six."

"Did you inhale much of the flame and smoke?"

"Yes, I think I must have inhaled some, but I did not notice it until
now."

"Was the smoke very thick?"

"Awfully thick in places."

"And you walked right into it?"

"I had to. There wasn't any way to ride."

"Ride?"

"I mean I walked into the smoke. I don't know what I am saying. You must
be right. I am sick."

"How brave my husband is. How proud I am of him. And not only brave but
skilful. How did you manage to go through the smoke and flame and get no
odor of smoke on your clothes, nor smut the front of your shirt?"

"I don't know, dear. I did not have time to notice. I was too busy."

"Ah, my hero! I am proud of you. Did you win or lose?"

"Did I what?"

"Did you win or lose?"

Tom took another look into her innocent blue eyes.

"Which?" she repeated.

"Ruth, what have you been doing to me?"

"Aren't you ashamed of yourself?"

"Don't I look it?"




A THRENODY

BY GEORGE THOMAS LANIGAN


  What, what, what,
    What's the news from Swat?
        Sad news,
        Bad news,
  Comes by the cable led
  Through the Indian Ocean's bed,
  Through the Persian Gulf, the Red
  Sea and the Med-
  Iterranean--he's dead;
  The Ahkoond is dead!

  For the Ahkoond I mourn,
    Who wouldn't?
  He strove to disregard the message stern,
    But he Ahkoodn't.
  Dead, dead, dead;
        (Sorrow Swats!)
  Swats wha hae wi' Ahkoond bled,
  Swats whom he hath often led
  Onward to a gory bed,
    Or to victory,
    As the case might be,
        Sorrow Swats!
  Tears shed,
    Shed tears like water,
  Your great Ahkoond is dead!
    That Swats the matter!
  Mourn, city of Swat!
  Your great Ahkoond is not,
  But lain 'mid worms to rot.
  His mortal part alone, his soul was caught
    (Because he was a good Ahkoond)
    Up to the bosom of Mahound.
  Though earthy walls his frame surround
  (Forever hallowed be the ground!)
  And skeptics mock the lowly mound
  And say, "He's now of no Ahkoond!"
    His soul is in the skies,--
  The azure skies that bend above his loved
      Metropolis of Swat.
    He sees with larger, other eyes,
    Athwart all earthly mysteries--
      He knows what's Swat.

  Let Swat bury the great Ahkoond
    With a noise of mourning and of lamentation!
  Let Swat bury the great Ahkoond
    With the noise of the mourning of the
      Swattish nation!

    Fallen is at length
    Its tower of strength,
  Its sun is dimmed ere it had nooned;
  Dead lies the great Ahkoond,
    The great Ahkoond of Swat
    Is not!




THE CONSCIENTIOUS CURATE AND THE BEAUTEOUS BALLET GIRL

BY WILLIAM RUSSELL ROSE


  Young William was a curate good,
    Who to himself did say:
  "I cawn't denounce the stage as vile
    Until I've seen a play."

  He was so con-sci-en-ti-ous
    That, when the play he sought,
  To grasp its entire wickedness
    A front row seat he bought.

_'Twas in the burlesque, you know, the burlesque of "Prince Prettypate,
or the Fairy Muffin Ring," and when the ballet came on, that good young
curate met his fate. She, too, was in the front row, and--_

  She danced like this, she danced like that,
    Her feet seemed everywhere;
  They scarcely touched the floor at all
    But twinkled in the air.

  She _entrechat_, her fairy _pas_
    Filled William with delight;
  She whirled around, his heart did bound--
    'Twas true love at first sight.

  He sought her out and married her;
    Of course, she left the stage,
  And in his daily parish work
    With William did engage.

  She helped him in his parish school,
    Where ragged urchins go,
  And all the places on the map
    She'd point out with her toe.

_And when William gently remonstrated with her, she only said: "William,
when I married you I gave you my hand--my feet are still my own."_

  She'd point like this, she'd point like that,
    The scholars she'd entrance--
  "This, children, is America;
    And this, you see, is France.

  "A highland here, an island there,
    'Round which the waters roll;
  And this is Pa-ta-go-ni-ah,
    And this is the frozen Pole."

  Young William's bishop called one day,
    But found the curate out,
  And so he told the curate's wife
    What he had come about

  "Your merit William oft to me
    Most highly doth extol;
  I trust, my dear, you always try
    To elevate the soul."

_Then William's wife made the bishop a neat little curtsey, and gently
said: "Oh, yes, your Grace, I always do--in my own peculiar way."_

  She danced like this, she danced like that,
    The bishop looked aghast;
  He could not see her mazy skirts,
    They switched around so fast.

  She tripped it here, she skipped it there,
    The bishop's eyes did roll--
  "God bless me! 'tis a pleasant way
    To elevate the sole!"




THE HOSS

BY JAMES WHITCOMB RILEY


  The hoss he is a splendud beast;
    He is man's friend, as heaven desined,
  And, search the world from west to east,
    No honester you'll ever find!

  Some calls the hoss "a pore dumb brute,"
    And yit, like Him who died fer you,
  I say, as I theyr charge refute,
    "'Fergive; they know not what they do!'"

  No wiser animal makes tracks
    Upon these earthly shores, and hence
  Arose the axium, true as facts,
    Extoled by all, as "Good hoss-sense!"

  The hoss is strong, and knows his stren'th,--
    You hitch him up a time er two
  And lash him, and he'll go his len'th
    And kick the dashboard out fer you!

  But, treat him allus good and kind,
    And never strike him with a stick,
  Ner aggervate him, and you'll find
    He'll never do a hostile trick.

  A hoss whose master tends him right
    And worters him with daily care,
  Will do your biddin' with delight,
    And act as docile as _you_ air.

  He'll paw and prance to hear your praise,
    Because he's learn't to love you well;
  And, though you can't tell what he says,
    He'll nicker all he wants to tell.

  He knows you when you slam the gate
    At early dawn, upon your way
  Unto the barn, and snorts elate,
    To git his corn, er oats, er hay.

  He knows you, as the orphant knows
    The folks that loves her like theyr own,
  And raises her and "finds" her clothes,
    And "schools" her tel a womern-grown!

  I claim no hoss will harm a man,
    Ner kick, ner run away, cavort,
  Stump-suck, er balk, er "catamaran,"
    Ef you'll jest treat him as you ort.

  But when I see the beast abused,
    And clubbed around as I've saw some,
  I want to see his owner noosed,
    And jest yanked up like Absolum!

  Of course they's differunce in stock,--
    A hoss that has a little yeer,
  And slender build, and shaller hock,
    Can beat his shadder, mighty near!

  Whilse one that's thick in neck and chist
    And big in leg and full in flank,
  That tries to race, I still insist
    He'll have to take the second rank.

  And I have jest laid back and laughed,
    And rolled and wallered in the grass
  At fairs, to see some heavy-draft
    Lead out at _first_, yit come in _last_!

  Each hoss has his appinted place,--
    The heavy hoss should plow the soil;--
  The blooded racer, he must race,
    And win big wages fer his toil.

  I never bet--ner never wrought
    Upon my feller-man to bet--
  And yit, at times, I've often thought
    Of my convictions with regret.

  I bless the hoss from hoof to head--
    From head to hoof, and tale to mane!--
  I bless the hoss, as I have said,
    From head to hoof, and back again!

  I love my God the first of all,
    Then Him that perished on the cross,
  And next, my wife,--and then I fall
    Down on my knees and love the hoss.




WHEN DOCTORS DISAGREE

BY S. E. KISER


  He looked at my tongue and he shook his head--
    This was Doctor Smart--
  He thumped on my chest, and then he said:
    "Ah, there it is! Your heart!
    You mustn't run--you mustn't hurry!
    You mustn't work--you mustn't worry!
  Just sit down and take it cool;
    You may live for years, I can not say;
  But, in the meantime, make it a rule
    To take this medicine twice a day!"

  He looked at my tongue, and he shook his head--
    This was Doctor Wise--
  "Your liver's a total wreck," he said,
    "You must take more exercise!
    You mustn't eat sweets.
    You mustn't eat meats,
  You must walk and leap, you must also run;
    You mustn't sit down in the dull old way;
  Get out with the boys and have some fun--
    And take three doses of this a day!"

  He looked at my tongue, and he shook his head--
    This was Doctor Bright--
  "I'm afraid your lungs are gone," he said,
    "And your kidney isn't right.
    A change of scene is what you need,
    Your case is desperate, indeed,
  And bread is a thing you mustn't eat--
    Too much starch--but, by the way,
  You must henceforth live on only meat--
    And take six doses of this a day!"

  Perhaps they were right, and perhaps they knew,
    It isn't for me to say;
  Mayhap I erred when I madly threw
    Their bitter stuff away;
    But I'm living yet and I'm on my feet,
    And grass isn't all I dare to eat,
  And I walk and I run and I worry, too,
    But, to save my life, I can not see
  What some of the able doctors would do
    If there were no fools like you and me.




THE BOAT THAT AIN'T[4]

BY WALLACE IRWIN


  A stout, fat boat for gailin'
    And a long, slim boat for squall;
  But there isn't no fun in sailin'
    When you haven't no boat at all.

  For what is the use o' calkin'
    A tub with a mustard pot--
  And what is the use o' talkin'
    Of a boat that you haven't got?

FOOTNOTES:

[4] From "Nautical Lays of a Landsman," by Wallace Irwin. Copyright,
1904, by Dodd, Mead & Co.




HOW JIMABOY FOUND HIMSELF

BY FRANCIS LYNDE


When Jimaboy began to live by his wits--otherwise, when he set up author
and proposed to write for bread and meat--it was a time when the public
appetite demanded names and _naïveté_. And since Jimaboy was fresh
enough to satisfy both of these requirements, the editors looked with
favor upon him, and his income, for a little while, exceeded the modest
figure of the railroad clerkship upon which he had ventured to ask
Isobel to marry him.

But afterward there came a time of dearth; a period in which the new
name was no longer a thing to conjure with, and artlessness was a drug
on the market. Cleverness was the name of the new requirement, and
Jimaboy's gift was glaringly sentimental. When you open your magazine at
"The Contusions of Peggy, by James Augustus Jimaboy," you are justly
indignant when you find melodrama and predetermined pathos instead of
the clever clowneries which the sheer absurdity of the author's
signature predicts.

"Item," said Jimaboy, jotting it down in his notebook while Isobel hung
over the back of his chair: "It's a perilous thing to make people cry
when they are out for amusement. Did the postman remember us this
morning?"

Isobel nodded mournfully.

"And the crop?" said Jimaboy.

"Three manuscripts; two from New York and one from Boston."

  "'So flee the works of men
  Back to the earth again,'"

quoted the sentimentalist, smiling from the teeth outward. "Is that
all?"

"All you would care about. There were some fussy old bills."

"Whose, for instance?"

"Oh, the grocer's and the coal man's and the butcher's and the water
company's, and some other little ones."

"'Some other little ones'," mused Jimaboy. "There's pathos for you. If I
could ever get that into a story, with your intonation, it would be
cheap at fifteen cents the word. We're up against it, Bella, dear."

"Well?" she said, with an arm around his neck.

"It isn't well; it's confoundedly ill. It begins to look as if it were
'back to the farm' for us."

She came around to sit on the arm of the chair.

"To the railroad office? Never! Jimmy, love. You are too good for that."

"Am I? That remains to be proved. And just at present the evidence is
accumulating by the ream on the other side--reams of rejected MS."

"You haven't found yourself yet; that is all."

He forced a smile. "Let's offer a reward. 'Lost: the key to James and
Isobel Jimaboy's success in life. Finder will be suitably recompensed on
returning same to 506 Hayward Avenue, Cleland, Ohio.'"

She leaned over and planted a soft little kiss on the exact spot on his
forehead where it would do the most good.

"I could take the city examination and teach, if you'd let me, Jimmy."

He shook his head definitely. That was ground which had been gone over
before.

"Teach little babies their a b c's? I'm afraid that isn't your
specialty, heart of mine. Now if you could teach other women the art of
making a man believe that he has cornered the entire visible supply of
ecstatic thrills in marrying the woman of his choice--by Jove, now!
there's an idea!"

Now Jimaboy had no idea in particular; he never had an idea that he did
not immediately coin it into words and try to sell it. But Isobel's eyes
were suspiciously bright, and the situation had to be saved.

"I was just thinking: the thing to do successfully is the--er--the thing
you do best, isn't it?"

She laughed, in spite of the unpaid bills.

"Why can't you put clever things like that into your stories, Jimmy,
dear?"

"As if I didn't!" he retorted. "But don't step on my idea and squash it
while it's in the soft-shell-crab stage. As I said, I was thinking:
there is just one thing we can give the world odds on and beat it out of
sight. And that thing is our long suit--our specialty."

"But you said you had an idea," said Isobel, whose private specialty was
singleness of purpose.

"Oh--yes," said Jimaboy. Then he smote hard upon the anvil and forged
one on the spur of the moment. "Suppose we call it The Post-Graduate
School of W. B., Professor James Augustus Jimaboy, principal; Mrs.
Isobel Jimaboy, assistant principal. How would that sound?"

"It would sound like the steam siren on the planing mill. But what is
the 'W. B.'?"

"'Wedded Bliss,' of course. Here is the way it figures out. We've been
married three years, and--"

"Three years, five months and fourteen days," she corrected.

"Excellent! That accuracy of yours would be worth a fortune on the
faculty. But let me finish--during these three years, five months and
fourteen days we have fought, bled and died on the literary
battle-field; dined on bath-mitts and _café hydraulique_, walked past
the opera-house entrance when our favorite play was on, and all that.
But tell me, throb of my heart, have we ever gone shy on bliss?"

She met him half-way. It was the spirit in which they had faced the bill
collector since the beginning of the period of leanness.

"Never, Jimmy, dear; not even hardly ever."

"There you are, then. Remains only for us to tell others how to do it;
to found the Post-Graduate School of W. B. It's the one thing needful in
a world of educational advantage; a world in which everything but the
gentle art of being happy, though married, is taught by the postman. We
have solved all the other problems, but there has been no renaissance in
the art of matrimony. Think of the ten thousand divorces granted in a
single state last year! My dear Isobel, we mustn't lose a day--an
hour--a minute!"

She pretended to take him seriously.

"I don't know why we shouldn't do it, I'm sure," she mused. "They teach
everything by mail nowadays. But who is going to die and leave us the
endowment to start with?"

"That's the artistic beauty of the mail scheme," said Jimaboy,
enthusiastically. "It doesn't require capitalizing; no buildings, no
campus, no football team, no expensive university plant; nothing but an
inspiration, a serviceable typewriter, and a little old postman to blow
his whistle at the door."

"And the specialty," added Isobel, "though some of them don't seem to
trouble themselves much about that. Oh, yes; and the advertising; that
is where the endowment comes in, isn't it?"

But Jimaboy would not admit the obstacle.

"That is one of the things that grow by what they are fed upon: your ad.
brings in the money, and then the money buys more ad. Now, there's
Blicker, of the _Woman's Uplift_; he still owes us for that last
story--we take it out in advertising space. Also Dormus, of the _Home
World_, and Amory, of the _Storylovers_--same boat--more advertising
space. Then the _Times_ hasn't paid for that string of space-fillers on
'The Lovers of All Nations.' The _Times_ has a job office, and we could
take that out in prospectuses and application blanks."

By this time the situation was entirely saved and Isobel's eyes were
dancing.

"Wouldn't it be glorious?" she murmured. "Think of the precious,
precious letters we'd get; real letters like some of those pretended
ones in Mr. Blicker's correspondence column. And we wouldn't tell them
what the 'W. B.' meant until after they'd finished the course, and then
we'd send them the degree of 'Master of Wedded Bliss,' and write it out
in the diploma."

Jimaboy sat back in his chair and laughed uproariously. The most
confirmed sentimentalist may have a saving sense of humor. Indeed, it is
likely to go hard with him in the experimental years, if he has it not.

"It's perfectly feasible--perfectly," he chuckled. "It would be merely
pounding sand into the traditional rat-hole with all the implements
furnished--teaching our specialty to a world yearning to know how. You
could get up the lectures and question schedules for the men, and I
could make some sort of a shift with the women."

"Yes; but the text-books. Don't these 'Fit-yourself-at-Home' schools
have text-books?"

"Um, y-yes; I suppose they do. That would be a little difficult for
us--just at the go-off. But we could get around that. For example, 'Dear
Mrs. Blank: Replying to your application for membership in the
Post-Graduate School of W. B., would say that your case is so
peculiar'--that would flatter her immensely--'your case is so peculiar
that the ordinary text-books cover it very inadequately. Therefore, with
your approval, and for a small additional tuition fee of $2 the term, we
shall place you in a special class to be instructed by electrographed
lectures dictated personally by the principal.'"

Isobel clapped her hands. "Jimmy, love, you are simply great, when you
are not trying to be. And, after a while, we could print the lectures
and have our own text-books copyrighted. But don't you think we ought to
take in the young people, as well?--have a--a collegiate department for
beginners?"

"'Sh!" said Jimaboy, and he got up and closed the door with ostentatious
caution. "Suppose somebody--Lantermann, for instance--should hear you
say such things as that: 'take in the young people'! Shades of the
Rosicrucians! we wouldn't 'take in' anybody. The very life of these mail
things is the unshaken confidence of the people. But, as you suggest, we
really ought to include the frying size."

It was delicious fooling, and Isobel found a sketch-block and dipped her
pen.

"You do the letter-press for the 'collegiate' ad., and I'll make a
picture for it," she said. "Hurry, or I'll beat you."

Jimaboy laughed and squared himself at the desk, and the race began.
Isobel had a small gift and a large ambition: the gift was a
cartoonist's facility in line drawing, and the ambition was to be able,
in the dim and distant future, to illustrate Jimaboy's stories.
Lantermann, the _Times_ artist, whose rooms were just across the hall,
had given her a few lessons in caricature and some little gruff,
Teutonic encouragement.

"Time!" she called, tossing the sketch-block over to Jimaboy. It was a
happy thought. On a modern davenport sat two young people, far apart;
the youth twiddling his thumbs in an ecstasy of embarrassment; the
maiden making rabbit's ears with her handkerchief. Jimaboy's note of
appreciation was a guffaw.

"I couldn't rise to the expression on those faces in a hundred years!"
he lamented. "Hear me creak:"

  DON'T MARRY

until you have taken the Preparatory Course in the Post-Graduate School
of W. B. Home-Study in the Science of Successful Heart-Throbs. Why earn
only ten kisses a week when one hour a day will qualify you for the
highest positions? Our Collegiate Department confers degree of B. B.;
Post-Graduate Department that of M. W. B. Members of Faculty all
certificated Post-Graduates.

A postal card brings Prospectus and application blank.

Address: The Post-Graduate School of W. B., 506 Hayward Avenue, Cleland,
Ohio.

Isobel applauded loyally. "Why, that doesn't creak a little bit! Try it
again; for the unhappy T. M.'s, this time. Ready? Play!"

Her picture was done while Jimaboy was still nibbling his pen and
scowling over the scratch-pad. It was a drawing-room interior, with the
wife in tears and the husband struggling into his overcoat. To them,
running, an animated United States mail-bag, extending a huge envelope
marked: "From the Post-Graduate School of W. B."

Jimaboy scratched out and rewrote, with the pen-drawing for an
inspiration:

  HEARTS DIVIDED
    BECOME
  HEARTS UNITED

when you have taken a Correspondence Course in Wedded Bliss. A
Scholarship in the Post-Graduate School of W. B. is the most acceptable
wedding gift or Christmas present for your friends. Curriculum includes
Matrimony as a Fine Art, Post-Marriage Courtship, Elementary and
Advanced Studies in Conjugal Harmony, Easy Lessons in the Gentle Craft
of Eating Her Experimental Bread, Practical Analysis of the Club-Habit,
with special course for wives in the Abstract Science of Honeyfugling
Parsimonious Husbands. Diploma qualifies for highest positions. Our Gold
Medalists are never idle.

The Post-Graduate School of W. B., 506 Hayward Avenue, Cleland, Ohio.

N. B.--Graphophone, with Model Conversations for Married Lovers,
furnished free with lectures on Post-Marriage Courtship.

They pinned the pictures each to its "copy" and had their laugh over the
conceit.

"Blest if I don't believe we could actually fake the thing through if we
should try," said Jimaboy. "There are plenty of people in this world who
would take it seriously."

"I don't doubt it," was Isobel's reply. "People are so ready to be
gold-bricked--especially by mail. But it's twelve o'clock! Shall I
light the stove for luncheon?--or can we stand Giuseppe's?"

Jimaboy consulted the purse.

"I guess we can afford stuffed macaroni, this one time more," he
rejoined. "Let's go now, while we can get one of the side tables and be
exclusive."

They had barely turned the corner in the corridor when Lantermann's door
opened and the cartoonist sallied out, also luncheon-stirred. He was a
big German, with fierce military mustaches and a droop in his left eye
that had earned him the nickname of "Bismarck" on the _Times_ force. He
tapped at the Jimaboy door in passing, growling to himself in broken
English.

"I like not dis light housegeeping for dese babies mit der wood. Dey
starf von day und eat nottings der next. I choost take dem oud once und
gif dem sauerkraut und wiener."

When there was no answer to his rap he pushed the door open and entered,
being altogether on a brotherly footing with his fellow-lodgers. The
pen-drawings with their pendant squibs were lying on Jimaboy's desk; and
when Lantermann comprehended he sat down in Jimaboy's chair and dwelt
upon them.

"_Himmel!_" he gurgled; "dot's some of de liddle voman's fooling. Goot,
_sehr_ goot! I mus' show dot to Hasbrouck." And when he went out, the
copy for the two advertisements was in his pocket.

Jimaboy got a check from the _Storylovers_ that afternoon, and in the
hilarity consequent upon such sudden and unexpected prosperity the
Post-Graduate School of W. B. was forgotten. But not permanently. Late
in the evening, when Jimaboy was filing and scraping laboriously on
another story,--he always worked hardest on the heels of a
check,--Isobel thought of the pen-drawings and looked in vain for them.

"What did you do with the W. B. jokes, Jimmy?" she asked.

"I didn't do anything with them. Don't tell me they're lost!"--in mock
concern.

"They seem to be; I can't find them anywhere."

"Oh, they'll turn up again all right," said Jimaboy; and he went on with
his polishing.

They did turn up, most surprisingly. Three days later, Isobel was
glancing through the thirty-odd pages of the swollen _Sunday Times_, and
she gave a little shriek.

"Horrors!" she cried; "the _Times_ has printed those ridiculous jokes of
ours, _and run them as advertisements_!"

"What!" shouted Jimaboy.

"It's so; see here!"

It was so, indeed. On the "Wit and Humor" page, which was half reading
matter and half advertising, the Post-Graduate School of W. B. figured
as large as life, with very fair reproductions of Isobel's drawings
heading the displays.

"Heavens!" ejaculated Jimaboy; and then his first thought was the
jealous author's. "Isn't it the luckiest thing ever that the spirit
didn't move me to sign those things?"

"You might as well have signed them," said Isobel. "You've given our
street and number."

"My kingdom!" groaned Jimaboy. "Here--you lock the door behind me, while
I go hunt Hasbrouck. It's a duel with siege guns at ten paces, or a suit
for damages with him."

He was back again in something under the hour, and his face was haggard.

"We are lost!" he announced tragically. "There is nothing for it now but
to run."

"How ever did it happen?" queried Isobel.

"Oh, just as simply and easily as rolling off a log--as such things
always happen. Lantermann saw the things on the desk, and your sketches
caught him. He took 'em down to show to Hasbrouck, and Hasbrouck,
meaning to do us a good turn, marked the skits up for the 'Wit and
Humor' page. The intelligent make-up foreman did the rest: says of
course he took 'em for ads. and run 'em as ads."

"But what does Mr. Hasbrouck say?"

"He gave me the horse laugh; said he would see to it that the
advertising department didn't send me a bill. When I began to pull off
my coat he took it all back and said he was all kinds of sorry and would
have the mistake explained in to-morrow's paper. But you know how that
goes. Out of the hundred and fifty thousand people who will read those
miserable squibs to-day, not five thousand will see the explanation
to-morrow. Oh, we've got to run, I tell you; skip, fly, vanish into thin
air!"

But sober second thought came after a while to relieve the panic
pressure. 506 Hayward Avenue was a small apartment-house, with a dozen
or more tenants, lodgers, or light housekeepers, like the Jimaboys. All
they would have to do would be to breathe softly and make no mention of
the Post-Graduate School of W. B. Then the other tenants would never
know, and the postman would never know. Of course, the non-delivery of
the mail might bring troublesome inquiry upon the _Times_ advertising
department, but, as Jimaboy remarked maliciously, that was none of their
funeral.

Accordingly, they breathed softly for a continuous week, and carefully
avoided personal collisions with the postman. But temporary barricades
are poor defenses at the best. One day as they were stealthily scurrying
out to luncheon--they had acquired the stealthy habit to perfection by
this time--they ran plump into the laden mail carrier in the lower hall.

"Hello!" said he; "you are just the people I've been looking for. I have
a lot of letters and postal cards for The Post-Graduate School of
something or other, 506 Hayward. Do you know anything about it?"

They exchanged glances. Isobel's said, "Are you going to make _me_ tell
the fib?" and Jimaboy's said, "Help!"

"I--er--I guess maybe they belong to us"--it was the man who weakened.
"At least, it was our advertisement that brought them. Much obliged, I'm
sure." And a breathless minute later they were back in their rooms with
the fateful and fearfully bulky packet on the desk between them and such
purely physical and routine things as luncheon quite forgotten.

"James Augustus Jimaboy! What have you done?" demanded the accusing
angel.

"Well, somebody had to say something, and you wouldn't say it," retorted
Jimaboy.

"Jimmy, did you want me to lie?"

"That's what you wanted me to do, wasn't it? But perhaps you think that
one lie, more or less, wouldn't cut any figure in my case."

"Jimmy, dear, don't be horrid. You know perfectly well that your
curiosity to see what is in those letters was too much for you."

Jimaboy walked to the window and shoved his hands deep into his pockets.
It was their first quarrel, and being unfamiliar with the weapons of
that warfare, he did not know which one to draw next. And the one he did
draw was a tin dagger, crumpling under the blow.

"It has been my impression all along that curiosity was a feminine
weakness," he observed to the windowpanes.

"James Jimaboy! You know better than that! You've Said a dozen times in
your stories that it was just the other way about--you know you have.
And, besides, I didn't let the cat out of the bag."

Here was where Jimaboy's sense of humor came in. He turned on her
quickly. She was the picture of righteous indignation trembling to
tears. Whereupon he took her in his arms, laughing over her as she might
have wept over him.

"Isn't this rich!" he gasped. "We--we built this thing on our specialty,
and here we are qualifying like cats and dogs for our great mission to a
quarrelsome world. Listen, Bella, dear, and I'll tell you why I
weakened. It wasn't curiosity, or just plain, every-day scare. There is
sure to be money in some of these letters, and it must be returned.
Also, the other people must be told that it was only a joke."

"B-but we've broken our record and qu-quarreled!" she sobbed.

"Never mind," he comforted; "maybe that was necessary, too. Now we can
add another course to the curriculum and call it the Exquisite Art of
Making Up. Let's get to work on these things and see what we are in
for."

They settled down to it in grim determination, cutting out the down-town
luncheon and munching crackers and cheese while they opened and read and
wrote and returned money and explained and re-explained in deadly and
wearisome repetition.

"My land!" said Jimaboy, stretching his arms over his head, when Isobel
got up to light the lamps, "isn't the credulity of the race a beautiful
thing to contemplate? Let's hope this furore will die down as suddenly
as it jumped up. If it doesn't, I'm going to make Hasbrouck furnish us a
stenographer and pay the postage."

But it did not die down. For a solid fortnight they did little else than
write letters and postal cards to anxious applicants, and by the end of
the two weeks Jimaboy was starting up in his bed of nights to rave out
the threadbare formula of explanation: "Dear Madam: The ad. you saw in
the _Sunday Times_ was not an ad.; it was a joke. There is no
Post-Graduate School of W. B. in all the world. Please don't waste your
time and ours by writing any more letters."

The first rift in the cloud was due to the good offices of Hasbrouck. He
saw matter of public interest in the swollen jest and threw the columns
of the _Sunday Times_ open to Jimaboy. Under the racking pressure, the
sentimentalist fired volley upon volley of scathing ridicule into the
massed ranks of anxious inquirers, and finally came to answering some of
the choicest of the letters in print.

"Good!" said Hasbrouck, when the "Jimaboy Column" in the Sunday paper
began to be commented on and quoted; and he made Jimaboy an offer that
seemed like sudden affluence.

But the crowning triumph came still later, in a letter from the editor
of one of the great magazines. Jimaboy got it at the _Times_ office, and
some premonition of its contents made him keep it until Isobel could
share it.

"We have been watching your career with interest," wrote the great man,
"and we are now casting about for some one to take charge of a humorous
department to be called 'Bathos and Pathos,' which we shall, in the near
future, add to the magazine. May we see more of your work, as well as
some of Mrs. Jimaboy's sketches?

"O Jimmy, dear, you found yourself at last!"

But his smile was a grin. "No," said he; "we've just got our diplomas
from the Post-Graduate School of W. B.--that's all."




A RULE OF THREE

BY WALLACE RICE


  There is a rule to drink, I think,
  A rule of three
  That you'll agree
  With me
  Can not be beat
  And tends our lives to sweeten:
  _Drink ere you eat_,
  _And while you eat_,
  _And after you have eaten_!




HOW THE MONEY GOES

BY JOHN G. SAXE


  How goes the Money?--Well,
  I'm sure it isn't hard to tell;
  It goes for rent, and water-rates,
  For bread and butter, coal and grates,
  Hats, caps, and carpets, hoops and hose,--
  And that's the way the Money goes!

  How goes the Money?--Nay,
  Don't everybody know the way?
  It goes for bonnets, coats and capes,
  Silks, satins, muslins, velvets, crapes,
  Shawls, ribbons, furs, and furbelows,--
  And that's the way the Money goes!

  How goes the Money?--Sure,
  I wish the ways were something fewer;
  It goes for wages, taxes, debts;
  It goes for presents, goes for bets,
  For paint, _pommade_, and _eau de rose_,--
  And that's the way the Money goes!

  How goes the Money?--Now,
  I've scarce begun to mention how;
  It goes for laces, feathers, rings,
  Toys, dolls--and other baby-things,
  Whips, whistles, candies, bells and bows,--
  And that's the way the Money goes!

  How goes the Money?--Come,
  I know it doesn't go for rum;
  It goes for schools and sabbath chimes,
  It goes for charity--sometimes;
  For missions, and such things as those,--
  And that's the way the Money goes!

  How goes the Money?--There!
  I'm out of patience, I declare;
  It goes for plays, and diamond pins,
  For public alms, and private sins,
  For hollow shams, and silly shows,--
  And that's the way the Money goes!




A CAVALIER'S VALENTINE

(1644)

BY CLINTON SCOLLARD


  The sky was like a mountain mere,
    The lilac buds were brown,
  What time a war-worn cavalier
    Rode into Taunton-town.
  He sighed and shook his head forlorn;
    "A sorry lot is mine,"
  He said, "who have this merry morn
    Pale Want for Valentine."

  His eyes, like heather-bells at dawn,
    Were blue and brave and bold;
  Against his cheeks, now wan and drawn,
    His love-locks tossed their gold.
  And as he rode, beyond a wall
    With ivy overrun,
  His glance upon a maid did fall,
    A-sewing in the sun.

  As sweet was she as wilding thyme,
    A boon, a bliss, a grace:
  It made the heart blood beat in rhyme
    To look upon her face.
  He bowed him low in courtesy,
    To her deep marvelling;
  "Fair Mistress Puritan," said he,
    "It is forward spring."

  As when the sea-shell flush of morn
    Throws night in rose eclipse,
  So sunshine smiles, that instant born,
    Brought brightness to her lips;
  Her voice was modest, yet, forsooth,
    It had a roguish ring;
  "_You_, sir, of all should know that truth--
    It _is_ a forward spring!"




A GREAT CELEBRATOR

BY BILL NYE


Being at large in Virginia, along in the latter part of last season, I
visited Monticello, the former home of Thomas Jefferson, also his grave.
Monticello is about an hour's ride from Charlottesville, by diligence.
One rides over a road constructed of rip-raps and broken stone. It is
called a macadamized road, and twenty miles of it will make the pelvis
of a long-waisted man chafe against his ears. I have decided that the
site for my grave shall be at the end of a trunk line somewhere, and I
will endow a droska to carry passengers to and from said grave.

Whatever my life may have been, and however short I may have fallen in
my great struggle for a generous recognition by the American people, I
propose to place my grave within reach of all.

Monticello is reached by a circuitous route to the top of a beautiful
hill, on the crest of which rests the brick house where Mr. Jefferson
lived. You enter a lodge gate in charge of a venerable negro, to whom
you pay two bits apiece for admission. This sum goes toward repairing
the roads, according to the ticket which you get. It just goes toward
it, however; it don't quite get there, I judge, for the roads are still
appealing for aid. Perhaps the negro can tell how far it gets. Up
through a neglected thicket of Virginia shrubs and ill-kempt trees you
drive to the house. It is a house that would readily command $750, with
queer porches to it, and large, airy windows. The top of the whole hill
was graded level, or terraced, and an enormous quantity of work must
have been required to do it, but Jefferson did not care. He did not care
for fatigue. With two hundred slaves of his own, and a dowry of three
hundred more which was poured into his coffers by his marriage, Jeff did
not care how much toil it took to polish off the top of a bluff or how
much the sweat stood out on the brow of a hill.

Jefferson wrote the Declaration of Independence. He sent it to one of
the magazines, but it was returned as not available, so he used it in
Congress and afterward got it printed in the _Record_.

I saw the chair he wrote it in. It is a plain, old-fashioned wooden
chair, with a kind of bosom-board on the right arm, upon which Jefferson
used to rest his Declaration of Independence whenever he wanted to write
it.

There is also an old gig stored in the house. In this gig Jefferson used
to ride from Monticello to Washington in a day. This is untrue, but it
goes with the place. It takes from 8:30 A. M. until noon to ride this
distance on a fast train, and in a much more direct line than the old
wagon road ran.

Mr. Jefferson was the father of the University of Virginia, one of the
most historic piles I have ever clapped eyes on. It is now under the
management of a classical janitor, who has a tinge of negro blood in his
veins, mixed with the rich Castilian blood of somebody else.

He has been at the head of the University of Virginia for over forty
years, bringing in the coals and exercising a general oversight over the
curriculum and other furniture. He is a modest man, with a tendency
toward the classical in his researches. He took us up on the roof,
showed us the outlying country, and jarred our ear-drums with the big
bell. Mr. Estes, who has general charge of Monticello--called
Montechello--said that Mr. Jefferson used to sit on his front porch
with a powerful glass, and watch the progress of the work on the
University, and if the workmen undertook to smuggle in a soft brick, Mr.
Jefferson, five or six miles away, detected it, and bounding lightly
into his saddle, he rode down there to Charlottesville, and clubbed the
bricklayers until they were glad to pull down the wall to that brick and
take it out again.

This story is what made me speak of that section a few minutes ago as an
outlying country.

The other day Charles L. Seigel told us the Confederate version of an
attack on Fort Moultrie during the early days of the war, which has
never been printed. Mr. Seigel was a German Confederate, and early in
the fight was quartered, in company with others, at the Moultrie House,
a seaside hotel, the guests having deserted the building.

Although large soft beds with curled hair mattresses were in each room,
the department issued ticks or sacks to be filled with straw for the use
of the soldiers, so that they would not forget that war was a serious
matter. Nobody used them, but they were there all the same.

Attached to the Moultrie House, and wandering about the back-yard, there
was a small orphan jackass, a sorrowful little light-blue mammal, with a
tinge of bitter melancholy in his voice. He used to dwell on the past a
good deal, and at night he would refer to it in tones that were choked
with emotion.

The boys caught him one evening as the gloaming began to arrange itself,
and threw him down on the green grass. They next pulled a straw bed over
his head, and inserted him in it completely, cutting holes for his legs.
Then they tied a string of sleigh-bells to his tail, and hit him a
smart, stinging blow with a black snake.

Probably that was what suggested to him the idea of strolling down the
beach, past the sentry, and on toward the fort. The darkness of the
night, the rattle of hoofs, the clash of the bells, the quick challenge
of the guard, the failure to give the countersign, the sharp volley of
the sentinels, and the wild cry, "to arms," followed in rapid
succession. The tocsin sounded, also the slogan. The culverin, ukase,
and door-tender were all fired. Huge beacons of fat pine were lighted
along the beach. The whole slumbering host sprang to arms, and the crack
of the musket was heard through the intense darkness.

In the morning the enemy was found intrenched in a mud-hole, south of
the fort, with his clean new straw tick spattered with clay, and a
wildly disheveled tail.

On board the Richmond train not long ago a man lost his hat as we pulled
out of Petersburg, and it fell by the side of the track. The train was
just moving slowly away from the station, so he had a chance to jump off
and run back after it. He got the hat, but not till we had placed seven
or eight miles between us and him. We could not help feeling sorry for
him, because very likely his hat had an embroidered hat band in it,
presented by one dearer to him than life itself, and so we worked up
quite a feeling for him, though of course he was very foolish to lose
his train just for a hat, even if it did have the needle-work of his
heart's idol in it.

Later I was surprised to see the same man in Columbia, South Carolina,
and he then told me this sad story:

"I started out a month ago to take a little trip of a few weeks, and the
first day was very, very happily spent in scrutinizing nature and
scanning the faces of those I saw. On the second day out, I ran across a
young man whom I had known slightly before, and who is engaged in the
business of being a companionable fellow and the life of the party.
That is about all the business he has. He knows a great many people, and
his circle of acquaintances is getting larger all the time. He is proud
of the enormous quantity of friendship he has acquired. He says he can't
get on a train or visit any town in the Union that he doesn't find a
friend.

"He is full of stories and witticisms, and explains the plays to theater
parties. He has seen a great deal of life and is a keen critic. He would
have enjoyed criticizing the Apostle Paul and his elocutionary style if
he had been one of the Ephesians. He would have criticized Paul's
gestures, and said, 'Paul, I like your Epistles a heap better than I do
your appearance on the platform. You express yourself well enough with
your pen, but when you spoke for the Ephesian Y. M. C. A., we were
disappointed in you and we lost money on you.'

"Well, he joined me, and finding out where I was going, he decided to go
also. He went along to explain things to me, and talk to me when I
wanted to sleep or read the newspaper. He introduced me to large numbers
of people whom I did not want to meet, took me to see things I didn't
want to see, read things to me that I didn't want to hear, and
introduced to me people who didn't want to meet me. He multiplied misery
by throwing uncongenial people together and then said: 'Wasn't it lucky
that I could go along with you and make it pleasant for you?'

"Everywhere he met more new people with whom he had an acquaintance. He
shook hands with them, and called them by their first names, and felt in
their pockets for cigars. He was just bubbling over with mirth, and
laughed all the time, being so offensively joyous, in fact, that when he
went into a car, he attracted general attention, which suited him
first-rate. He regarded himself as a universal favorite and all-around
sunbeam.

"When we got to Washington, he took me up to see the President. He knew
the President well--claimed to know lots of things about the President
that made him more or less feared by the administration. He was
acquainted with a thousand little vices of all our public men, which
virtually placed them in his power. He knew how the President conducted
himself at home, and was 'on to everything' in public life.

"Well, he shook hands with the President, and introduced me. I could see
that the President was thinking about something else, though, and so I
came away without really feeling that I knew him very well.

"Then we visited the departments, and I can see now that I hurt myself
by being towed around by this man. He was so free, and so joyous, and so
bubbling, that wherever we went I could hear the key grate in the lock
after we passed out of the door.

"He started south with me. He was going to show me all the
battle-fields, and introduce me into society. I bought some strychnine
in Washington, and put it in his buckwheat cakes; but they got cold, and
he sent them back. I did not know what to do, and was almost wild, for I
was traveling entirely for pleasure, and not especially for his pleasure
either.

"At Petersburg I was told that the train going the other way would meet
us. As we started out, I dropped my hat from the window while looking at
something. It was a desperate move, but I did it. Then I jumped off the
train, and went back after it. As soon as I got around the curve I ran
for Petersburg, where I took the other train. I presume you all felt
sorry for me, but if you'd seen me fold myself in a long, passionate
embrace after I had climbed on the other train, you would have changed
your minds."

He then passed gently from my sight.




THE OLD-FASHIONED CHOIR

BY BENJAMIN F. TAYLOR


  I have fancied, sometimes, the Bethel-bent beam
  That trembled to earth in the patriarch's dream,
  Was a ladder of song in that wilderness rest,
  From the pillow of stone to the blue of the Blest,
  And the angels descended to dwell with us here,
  "Old Hundred," and "Corinth," and "China," and "Mear."
  All the hearts are not dead, not under the sod,
  That those breaths can blow open to Heaven and God!
  Ah! "Silver Street" leads by a bright, golden road--
  O! not to the hymns that in harmony flowed--
  But to those sweet human psalms in the old-fashioned choir,
  To the girls that sang alto, the girls that sang air!

  "Let us sing to God's praise," the minister said,
    All the psalm-books at once fluttered open at "York,"
  Sunned their long dotted wings in the words that he read,
  While the leader leaped into the tune just ahead,
    And politely picked out the key note with a fork,
  And the vicious old viol went growling along
  At the heels of the girls in the rear of the song.

  I need not a wing--bid no genii come,
  With a wonderful web from Arabian loom,
  To bear me again up the River of Time,
  When the world was in rhythm, and life was its rhyme;
  Where the streams of the year flowed so noiseless and narrow,
  That across them there floated the song of a sparrow;
  For a sprig of green caraway carries me there,
  To the old village church and the old village choir,
  When clear of the floor my feet slowly swung,
  And timed the sweet praise of the songs as they sung,
  Till the glory aslant of the afternoon sun
  Seemed the rafters of gold in God's temple begun!

  You may smile at the nasals of old Deacon Brown,
  Who followed by scent till he ran the tune down;
  And the dear sister Green, with more goodness than grace,
  Rose and fell on the tunes as she stood in her place,
  And where "Coronation" exultingly flows,
  Tried to reach the high notes on the tips of her toes!
  To the land of the leal they went with their song,
  Where the choir and the chorus together belong;
  O, be lifted, ye gates! Let me hear them again--
  Blessed song, blessed Sabbath, forever, amen!




WHEN THE LITTLE BOY RAN AWAY

BY FRANK L. STANTON


  When the little boy ran away from home
    The birds in the treetops knew,
  And they all sang "Stay!" But he wandered away
    Under the skies of blue.
  And the Wind came whispering from the tree:
  "Follow me--follow me!"
  And it sang him a song that was soft and sweet,
  And scattered the roses before his feet
    That day--that day
    When the little boy ran away.

  The Violets whispered: "Your eyes are blue
    And lovely and bright to see;
  And so are mine, and I'm kin to you,
    So dwell in the light with me!"
  But the little boy laughed, while the Wind in glee
  Said: "Follow me--follow me!"
  And the Wind called the clouds from their home in the skies
  And said to the Violet: "Shut your eyes!"
    That day--that day
    When the little boy ran away.

  Then the Wind played leap-frog over the hills
    And twisted each leaf and limb;
  And all the rivers and all the rills
    Were foaming mad with him!
  And 'twas dark as the darkest night could be,
  But still came the Wind's voice: "Follow me!"
  And over the mountain, and up from the hollow
  Came echoing voices, with: "Follow him--follow!"
    That awful day
    When the little boy ran away!

  Then the little boy cried: "Let me go--let me go!"
    For a scared--scared boy was he!
  But the Thunder growled from a black cloud: "No!"
    And the Wind roared: "Follow me!"
  And an old gray Owl from a treetop flew,
  Saying: "Who are you-oo? Who are you-oo?"
  And the little boy sobbed: "I'm lost away,
  And I want to go home where my parents stay!"
    Oh, the awful day
    When the little boy ran away!

  Then the Moon looked out from a cloud and said:
    "Are you sorry you ran away?
  If I light you home to your trundle bed,
    Will you stay, little boy, will you stay?"
  And the little boy promised--and cried and cried--
  He would never leave his mother's side;
  And the Moonlight led him over the plain
  And his mother welcomed him home again.
    But oh, what a day
    When the little boy ran away!




HE WANTED TO KNOW

BY SAM WALTER FOSS


  He wanted to know how God made the worl'
    Out er nothin' at all,
  W'y it wasn't made square, like a block or a brick,
    Stid er roun', like a ball,
  How it managed to stay held up in the air,
    An' w'y it don't fall;
  All such kin' er things, above an' below,
    He wanted to know.

  He wanted to know who Cain had for a wife,
    An' if the two fit;
  Who hit Billy Patterson over the head,
    If he ever got hit;
  An' where Moses wuz w'en the candle went out,
    An' if others were lit;
  If he couldn' fin' these out, w'y his cake wuz all dough,
    An' he wanted to know.

  An' he wanted to know 'bout original sin;
    An' about Adam's fall;
  If the snake hopped aroun' on the end of his tail
    Before doomed to crawl,
  An' w'at would hev happened if Adam hedn' et
    The ol' apple at all;
  These ere kind er things seemed ter fill him 'ith woe,
    An' he wanted to know.

  An' he wanted to know w'y some folks wuz good,
    An' some folks wuz mean,
  W'y some folks wuz middlin' an' some folks wuz fat,
    An' some folks wuz lean,
  An' some folks were very learned an' wise,
    An' some folks dern green;
  All these kin' er things they troubled him so
    That he wanted to know.

  An' so' he fired conundrums aroun',
    For he wanted to know;
  An' his nice crop er taters 'ud rot in the groun',
    An' his stuff wouldn't grow;
  For it took so much time to ask questions like these,
    He'd no time to hoe;
  He wanted to know if these things were so,
    Course he wanted know.

  An' his cattle they died, an' his horses grew sick,
    'Cause they didn't hev no hay;
  An' his creditors pressed him to pay up his bills,
    But he'd no time to pay,
  For he had to go roun' askin' questions, you know,
    By night an' by day;
  He'd no time to work, for they troubled him so,
    An' he wanted to know.

  An' now in the poorhouse he travels aroun'
    In just the same way,
  An' asks the same questions right over ag'in,
    By night an' by day;
  But he haint foun' no feller can answer 'em yit,
    An' he's ol' an' he's gray,
  But these same ol' conundrums they trouble him so,
    That he still wants to know.




SOLDIER, REST!

BY ROBERT J. BURDETTE


  A Russian sailed over the blue Black Sea,
    Just when the war was growing hot,
  And he shouted, "I'm Tjalikavakeree-
    Karindabrolikanavandorot-
      Schipkadirova-
      Ivandiszstova-
        Sanilik-
        Danilik-
      Varagobhot!"

  A Turk was standing upon the shore
    Right where the terrible Russian crossed;
  And he cried, "Bismillah! I'm Abd el Kor-
    Bazaroukilgonautoskobrosk-
      Getzinpravadi-
      Kilgekosladji-
        Grivido-
        Blivido-
      Jenikodosk!"

  So they stood like brave men, long and well,
    And they called each other their proper names,
  Till the lock-jaw seized them, and where they fell
    They buried them both by the Irdosholames-
      Kalatalustchuk-
      Mischaribustchup-
        Bulgari-
        Dulgari-
      Sagharimainz.




THE EXPERIENCES OF GENTLE JANE

BY CAROLYN WELLS


THE CARNIVOROUS BEAR

  Gentle Jane went walking, where
    She espied a Grizzly Bear;
  Flustered by the quadruped
    Gentle Jane just lost her head.

THE RUDE TRAIN

  Last week, Tuesday, gentle Jane
    Met a passing railroad train;
  "Ah, good afternoon," she said;
    But the train just cut her dead.

THE CARELESS NIECE

  Once her brother's child, for fun,
    Pointed at her aunt a gun.
  At this conduct of her niece's
    Gentle Jane went all to pieces.

THE NAUGHTY AUTOMOBILE

  Gentle Jane went for a ride,
    But the automobile shied;
  Threw the party all about--
    Somehow, Jane felt quite put out.

THE COLD, HARD LAKE

  Gentle Jane went out to skate;
    She fell through at half-past eight.
  Then the lake, with icy glare,
    Said, "Such girls I can not bear."

THE CALM STEAM-ROLLER

  In the big steam-roller's path
    Gentle Jane expressed her wrath.
  It passed over. After that
    Gentle Jane looked rather flat.

A NEW EXPERIENCE

  Much surprised was gentle Jane
    When a bullet pierced her brain;
  "Such a thing as that," she said,
    "Never came into my head!"

THE BATTERING-RAM

  "Ah!" said gentle Jane, "I am
    Proud to meet a battering-ram."
  Then, with shyness overcome,
    Gentle Jane was just struck dumb.




A FEW REFLECTIONS

BY BILL ARP


I rekon I've lived as much as most foaks accordin' to age, and I ain't
tired of livin' yit. I like it. I've seen good times, and bad times, and
hard times, and times that tired men's soles, but I never seed a time
that I coulden't extrakt sum cumfort out of trubble. When I was a boy I
was a lively little devil, and lost my edycashun bekaus I couldn't see
enuf fun in the spellin' book to get thru it. I'm sorry for it now, for
a blind man can see what a fool I am. The last skhoolin' I got was the
day I run from John Norton, and there was so much fun in that my daddy
sed he rekoned I'd got larnin' enuf. I had a bile on my back as big as a
ginney egg, and it was mighty nigh ready to bust. We boys had got in a
way of ringin' the bell before old Norton got there, and he sed that the
first boy he kotched at it would ketch hail Kolumby. Shore enuf he
slipped upon us one mornin', and before I knowed it he had me by the
collar, and was layin' it on like killin' snakes. I hollered, "My bile,
my bile, don't hit me on my bile," and just then he popped a center
shot, and I jumped three feet in the atmosphere, and with a hoop and a
beller I took to my heels. I run and hollered like the devil was after
me, and shore enuf he was. His long legs gained on me at every jump, but
just as he was about to grab me I made a double on him, and got a fresh
start. I was aktiv as a cat, and so we had it over fences, thru the
woods, and round the meetin' house, and all the boys was standin' on
skool house hill a hollerin', "Go it, my Bill--go it, my Bill." As good
luck would have it there was a grape vine a swingin' away ahead of me,
and I ducked my head under it just as old Norton was about two jumps
behind. He hadn't seen it, and it took him about the middle and throwed
him the hardest summerset I ever seed a man git. He was tired, and I
knowd it, and I stopped about three rods off and laffd at him as loud as
I could ball. I forgot all about my bile. He never follered me another
step, for he was plum giv out, but he set there bareheaded and shook his
hickory at me, lookin' as mad and as miserable as possible. That lick on
my bile was about the keenest pain I ever felt in my life, and like to
have killed me. It busted as wide open as a soap trof, and let every
drop of the juice out, but I've had a power of fun thinkin' about it for
the last forty years.

But I didn't start to tell you about that.






End of the Project Gutenberg EBook of The Wit and Humor of America, Volume
IX (of X), by Various

*** END OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK WIT AND HUMOR ***

***** This file should be named 24433-8.txt or 24433-8.zip *****
This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:
        http://www.gutenberg.org/2/4/4/3/24433/

Produced by Suzanne Lybarger, Annie McGuire, Brian Janes
and the Online Distributed Proofreading Team at
http://www.pgdp.net


Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions
will be renamed.

Creating the works from public domain print editions means that no
one owns a United States copyright in these works, so the Foundation
(and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United States without
permission and without paying copyright royalties.  Special rules,
set forth in the General Terms of Use part of this license, apply to
copying and distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works to
protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm concept and trademark.  Project
Gutenberg is a registered trademark, and may not be used if you
charge for the eBooks, unless you receive specific permission.  If you
do not charge anything for copies of this eBook, complying with the
rules is very easy.  You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose
such as creation of derivative works, reports, performances and
research.  They may be modified and printed and given away--you may do
practically ANYTHING with public domain eBooks.  Redistribution is
subject to the trademark license, especially commercial
redistribution.



*** START: FULL LICENSE ***

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full Project
Gutenberg-tm License (available with this file or online at
http://gutenberg.org/license).


Section 1.  General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works

1.A.  By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement.  If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or destroy
all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your possession.
If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound by the
terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person or
entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.

1.B.  "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark.  It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement.  There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement.  See
paragraph 1.C below.  There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this agreement
and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works.  See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C.  The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the Foundation"
or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection of Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works.  Nearly all the individual works in the
collection are in the public domain in the United States.  If an
individual work is in the public domain in the United States and you are
located in the United States, we do not claim a right to prevent you from
copying, distributing, performing, displaying or creating derivative
works based on the work as long as all references to Project Gutenberg
are removed.  Of course, we hope that you will support the Project
Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting free access to electronic works by
freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm works in compliance with the terms of
this agreement for keeping the Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with
the work.  You can easily comply with the terms of this agreement by
keeping this work in the same format with its attached full Project
Gutenberg-tm License when you share it without charge with others.

1.D.  The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work.  Copyright laws in most countries are in
a constant state of change.  If you are outside the United States, check
the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this agreement
before downloading, copying, displaying, performing, distributing or
creating derivative works based on this work or any other Project
Gutenberg-tm work.  The Foundation makes no representations concerning
the copyright status of any work in any country outside the United
States.

1.E.  Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1.  The following sentence, with active links to, or other immediate
access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear prominently
whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work on which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed, performed, viewed,
copied or distributed:

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or
re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org

1.E.2.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is derived
from the public domain (does not contain a notice indicating that it is
posted with permission of the copyright holder), the work can be copied
and distributed to anyone in the United States without paying any fees
or charges.  If you are redistributing or providing access to a work
with the phrase "Project Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the
work, you must comply either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1
through 1.E.7 or obtain permission for the use of the work and the
Project Gutenberg-tm trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or
1.E.9.

1.E.3.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any additional
terms imposed by the copyright holder.  Additional terms will be linked
to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works posted with the
permission of the copyright holder found at the beginning of this work.

1.E.4.  Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5.  Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6.  You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including any
word processing or hypertext form.  However, if you provide access to or
distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format other than
"Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official version
posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site (www.gutenberg.org),
you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense to the user, provide a
copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means of obtaining a copy upon
request, of the work in its original "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other
form.  Any alternate format must include the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7.  Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8.  You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works provided
that

- You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
     the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
     you already use to calculate your applicable taxes.  The fee is
     owed to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he
     has agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the
     Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation.  Royalty payments
     must be paid within 60 days following each date on which you
     prepare (or are legally required to prepare) your periodic tax
     returns.  Royalty payments should be clearly marked as such and
     sent to the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the
     address specified in Section 4, "Information about donations to
     the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation."

- You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
     you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
     does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
     License.  You must require such a user to return or
     destroy all copies of the works possessed in a physical medium
     and discontinue all use of and all access to other copies of
     Project Gutenberg-tm works.

- You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of any
     money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
     electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days
     of receipt of the work.

- You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
     distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9.  If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work or group of works on different terms than are set
forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing from
both the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and Michael
Hart, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark.  Contact the
Foundation as set forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1.  Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
public domain works in creating the Project Gutenberg-tm
collection.  Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may contain
"Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate or
corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other intellectual
property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or other medium, a
computer virus, or computer codes that damage or cannot be read by
your equipment.

1.F.2.  LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees.  YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH F3.  YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3.  LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from.  If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium with
your written explanation.  The person or entity that provided you with
the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in lieu of a
refund.  If you received the work electronically, the person or entity
providing it to you may choose to give you a second opportunity to
receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund.  If the second copy
is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing without further
opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4.  Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS' WITH NO OTHER
WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO
WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTIBILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5.  Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of damages.
If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement violates the
law of the state applicable to this agreement, the agreement shall be
interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or limitation permitted by
the applicable state law.  The invalidity or unenforceability of any
provision of this agreement shall not void the remaining provisions.

1.F.6.  INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in accordance
with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the production,
promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works,
harmless from all liability, costs and expenses, including legal fees,
that arise directly or indirectly from any of the following which you do
or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this or any Project Gutenberg-tm
work, (b) alteration, modification, or additions or deletions to any
Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any Defect you cause.


Section  2.  Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of computers
including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers.  It exists
because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations from
people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need, is critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come.  In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future generations.
To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation
and how your efforts and donations can help, see Sections 3 and 4
and the Foundation web page at http://www.pglaf.org.


Section 3.  Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive
Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service.  The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541.  Its 501(c)(3) letter is posted at
http://pglaf.org/fundraising.  Contributions to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent
permitted by U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's principal office is located at 4557 Melan Dr. S.
Fairbanks, AK, 99712., but its volunteers and employees are scattered
throughout numerous locations.  Its business office is located at
809 North 1500 West, Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887, email
business@pglaf.org.  Email contact links and up to date contact
information can be found at the Foundation's web site and official
page at http://pglaf.org

For additional contact information:
     Dr. Gregory B. Newby
     Chief Executive and Director
     gbnewby@pglaf.org


Section 4.  Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without wide
spread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment.  Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States.  Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements.  We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance.  To
SEND DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any
particular state visit http://pglaf.org

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States.  U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donation
methods and addresses.  Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations.
To donate, please visit: http://pglaf.org/donate


Section 5.  General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works.

Professor Michael S. Hart is the originator of the Project Gutenberg-tm
concept of a library of electronic works that could be freely shared
with anyone.  For thirty years, he produced and distributed Project
Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of volunteer support.


Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as Public Domain in the U.S.
unless a copyright notice is included.  Thus, we do not necessarily
keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper edition.


Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search facility:

     http://www.gutenberg.org

This Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.


  
IN THE UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT FOR THE MIDDLE DISTRICT OF 
PENNSYLVANIA

Case Number 4:04-CV-02688
TAMMY J. KITZMILLER, et al., Plaintiffs  
vs.
DOVER AREA SCHOOL DISTRICT;
DOVER AREA SCHOOL DISTRICT BOARD OF DIRECTORS, Defendants

AFTERNOON SESSION

TRANSCRIPT OF PROCEEDINGS OF BENCH TRIAL

Before: HONORABLE JOHN E. JONES, III

Date : September 28,

Place : Courtroom Number 2, 9th Floor Federal Building Walnut Street 
Harrisburg, Pennsylvania

COUNSEL PRESENT:

ERIC J. ROTHSCHILD, ESQ. WITOLD J. WALCZAK, ESQ. STEPHEN G. HARVEY, 
ESQ. RICHARD B. KATSKEE, ESQ.
For Plaintiffs

PATRICK T. GILLEN, ESQ. RICHARD THOMPSON, ESQ. ROBERT J. MUISE, EQ
For Defendants

Lori A. Shuey, RPR, CRR Official Court Reporter

INDEX

WITNESSES

For Plaintiffs: 
Julie Smith 
Christy Rehm
Beth Eveland 



  

   (The following discussion occurred in chambers:)


    Let's go on the record. We are in chambers, and this is 
the matter of Kitzmiller, of course, versus Dover Area School 
District. We have assembled as planned with respect to the issue of 
certain subpoenas that have been issued to reporters Joseph Maldonado 
and Heidi Bernhard-Bubb.

Present in chambers are counsel for both the plaintiffs and the 
defendants, and in addition to that, let me ask that you enter your 
appearances specially, presumably as counsel for the individuals we 
referred to in our orders collectively as "reporters."



    I'm here, Niles Benn, on behalf of both of the reporters, 
Heidi Bernard-Bubb and Joseph Maldonado. And with me is Terance Barna,
an attorney in my office, as well.



    All right. Now, previously, on September 12th, the Court 
entered an order which went to the motion for reconsideration. That 
related specifically to -- filed by the reporters. That went 
specifically to our August 2nd order which, in effect, said that the 
reporters would have to testify at certain depositions. Subsequently, 
the reporters were, if memory serves, approximately eight days ago, 
subpoenaed to testify by the plaintiffs in the case-in-chief. Yet 
another motion to quash or for alternative relief was filed by the 
reporters through Mr. Benn's office. By our order of last Thursday 
-- the date escapes me, I think it was Thursday -- the Court denied 
relief in that matter. The Court was advised that yesterday, on 
September the 27th, the reporters, both of them, showed up at the 
appointed times for their depositions as appropriately scheduled by the
defendants, and I'm advised -- and I'll correct this if I'm wrong 
-- that both reporters cited the reporter's privilege that they consider
to exist under the First Amendment so that they would not answer 
any questions at those depositions. We're brought here today by that, 
as well as the fact that I presume you're here because the reporters
have been properly subpoenaed to appear in the plaintiffs' 
case-in-chief. Now, have I mischaracterized anything from your 
standpoint? 



    No, everything that you said is correct, Your 
Honor. 



    Now, the most salient question then is, with 
respect to the reporters' appearance today, is it your understanding 
that the reporters are intending to invoke the same privilege cited 
by them yesterday, if called, when called, to testify by the 
plaintiffs?



    Yes.



    All right.



    But that's the reason why I had asked if we could have 
this conference.



    The floor is yours.



    Thanks. I'm not here to discuss law. I think we have 
discussed the law ad nauseam with respect to briefs, argument. I 
certainly understand the opinion and orders that have been rendered by
the Court, and I appreciate them.

And I don't want there to be a misunderstanding in terms as to this
case being wrongly focused. And what I mean by that, with regard to
all of you in this room is that we've got approximately 40 people from
the media that are observing this trial in the courtroom, plus 
outside of the courtroom.

In speaking for myself, it would be my humble opinion that if these 
parties were called to the stand to testify and refuse to testify, 
as I just indicated to you, Your Honor, that I think the focus of 
this trial all of the sudden isn't addressed as to intelligent 
design, but rather the media is going to be very much concerned in 
terms as to these stringers, not full-time employees, not employees at
all, standing up for what they think is right. And I really truly 
believe in my heart of hearts the focus gets misdirected. I really 
truly do mean that, because I don't think that should be the focus 
of this case.

As a result of that, Mr. Barna and I have spent days in an effort 
to try to see if there was a means by which we could somehow 
ameliorate the problem so that, in a certain sense, everybody gets 
what they want. I clearly will not get what I want, because at the 
end of the day, if I agree that my reporters are going to testify 
predicated upon something that I want to propose here, that's more 
than I would want, because I stand by the fact and they stand by 
the fact that there's a reporter's privilege here.

They refuse to testify at a deposition, and my suggestion to them 
was that if we were capable of resolving something as a result of 
this conference, that they would then attend a deposition, because I 
believe the defendants would have a right to cross-examine them or 
otherwise examine them prior to them taking the stand. And based upon
that, they would then testify in court.

But we have several issues. One is that when we filed our motion to
quash last week, quite honestly, we thought we did it in a timely 
fashion because we filed it only after we were served with the 
subpoena. Your Honor summarily dismissed that motion to quash, so, in 
effect, if my reporters were to be called upon to testify today by 
the plaintiffs, they're undressed. They've got no protective order at 
all. They're just regular people. Because the order I believe that 
you had previously entered related to the deposition and not related 
to their appearance in court. So that raises an issue for us because
clearly we would otherwise object to them taking the stand under the
order as it currently exists or the motion that you're -- your 
position that the motion to quash could not stand.

I interpret the order and the amended order to mean that Your Honor,
in a sense, has addressed them as fact witnesses. I don't think you
actually come out and use the word "fact witnesses," but as one 
reads the order, that's the implication. And you initially had 
indicated that you did not feel that the reporter's privilege stood 
in this kind of a case.

These two newspapers respectively go to approximately 89 municipal meetings
in terms of different municipalities and school districts. And 
ironically -- in a sense, I have to commend both Mr. Maldonado and 
Ms. Bernard-Bubb because, again, they're paid per story. They get 
anywhere between $40 and $50 a story. They might make $300, $400 a 
week if they write X number of stories, and that's it. And the 
stories that they write predominantly are municipal stories.

She's a full-time mom. She's breastfeeding. She has a seven-month old 
child, and so she works at night when her husband is at home. He's 
a schoolteacher. Mr. Maldonado owns a little deli in the market in 
York, and he home-schools his son, his youngest son who has learning 
disabilities. And he's been doing that for the last three years. So 
this is just supplemental income to them because they're not very 
wealthy people. But yet without a lot of education in terms of 
journalism, they believe that what they're standing for is the right 
thing.

I don't have control over them as I would an employee of the Daily 
Record or the Dispatch because they are stringers and independent. So 
having said that, their fear is that because of all those 
municipalities that they cover and the school districts that they 
cover, that at least in the Middle District Court, should a matter 
come up similar to this case, then they are exposed as a fact 
witness.

I've related to them, quite frankly, this is the first case we've 
ever had in federal court in the years that I've been doing 
newspaper law, and most of our cases are in county courts, and so, 
you know, there's a different issue there. But having said that, the 
concern that I have is that there is a precedent being set in the 
counties that these people otherwise work.

So how do I make it better? Well, we provided an affidavit, and 
that affidavit indicated that we, if called upon to testify, would 
validate the authenticity of the articles that were written. We did 
that, in effect, to offer to both sides so that we wouldn't 
otherwise have to testify. Accepted by the plaintiffs, not accepted by
the defendants. Defendants wanted to have the right of 
cross-examination.

And at the time when you wrote the original order and you used the 
words "perceived, saw, and heard," we were concerned, as you well 
know, with the word "perceived" in terms as to what's the thought 
process. And there was dialogue on the phone amongst all of us, and 
you made it very clear that you did not want any testimony that 
would otherwise relate to biases and prejudices. And, in fact, when 
you reviewed the notes of the reporters, you had also indicated that 
your review of Heidi Bubb's notes and the e-mails clearly evidence 
that there was no bias in the writings, those writings.

The concern that we currently have is that the order reads, in 
effect, that they have to testify as fact witnesses, predicated upon 
my interpretation, as to what is otherwise unpublished material so 
that, for example -- just using this for example.



    That's not my intention.



    No, no, but I --



    Well, that's not my intention. And I wanted to let you 
go as far as you could, and I think I have to interject and I 
want to interject and I want to be clear, because I think it's 
important that I do that. Let me address a couple points that you 
made.

First of all, I understand and deeply respect the position that 
you're in in this case. And by saying that the motion was untimely, 
it was not legally untimely, it was untimely in my view only in the
sense that it came, as I said, on the eve of trial, when we knew 
that there was going to be an issue with respect to their testimony 
at trial. It was an attempt to bring this to a head. It was 
successful in that respect. It was not successful in solving the 
problem, but it was successful to bringing it to a head. So to that
extent, I succeeded, good, bad, or indifferent.

With respect to the point that you made as it relates to their 
testimony at trial, that is a very valid point. However, I will tell
you that the sense of my opinion as it related to their deposition 
testimony and as reconsidered and as honed in the reconsideration, was
that it was meant to apply -- the general thrust of that, the 
protections, if you will, in that opinion were meant to apply in the
same sense to their testimony at trial, if they chose to testify, 
and they would be protected in every way by the Court, and they 
would not be questioned in the broader sense. So it would not revert
back to an unprotected realm, if you will, at the time of trial.

To be as clear as I can be, at issue in this case -- and I can't 
particularly be concerned about precedential value. I understand your 
concern in that regard. I have to try this case the best way that 
I know how. The concern in this case, and it is a vital concern by
all parties, is that we have, as you well know, to restate the 
obvious, we have newspaper articles within which there are quotes from
individuals. Those quotes go, at least in one sense, to the purpose 
behind the policy that was enacted by the Dover School Board.

The simple issue here, because it is the Court's understanding that 
these individuals have denied that they made these remarks, is from 
the plaintiffs' standpoint how can they get something that is, in my 
view, on the purpose test, which clearly goes to the truth of the 
matter asserted, how do they get these newspaper articles into 
evidence? Well, they can't, in my view, without the reporters 
testifying.

The defendants might say that even with the reporters testifying, they
can't get them in. I think that's their argument. But at the very 
least, in my view, and I think the plaintiffs might agree with this,
the reporters would have to testify.

I didn't say this strictly in the opinion, perhaps, but my opinion 
was not meant to allow the testimony of the reporters to go in any 
way, in particular, outside the four corners of the affidavits 
rendered by the reporters. I can't say that to the word, and that's 
why the opinions were crafted the way that they were. The Court has 
to have some discretion on the questioning.

But I was as clear as I could possibly be that what is at issue 
here would be, for example, the particular events that the reporters 
wrote about and questions such as -- simple questions, did they attend 
the meeting, did they hear them say the comments, did they write the
story immediately after, did they take notes at the time of the 
meeting.

I thought my opinion was clear in that regard, and as you 
appropriately characterize, no questions as to bias or motivation or 
reasons to misrepresent quotes would be allowed in. There I believe 
we would decidedly fly in the face of established case law.

I did not view and do not view the law as providing that there is 
some exhaustion requirement, although I understand some cases have said
that. In this particular fact situation -- and I do think, I will 
say, on the issue of precedent, you can distinguish cases of -- and 
I'm not so sure I would be as fearful as some might be as to 
precedential value. I think this case is somewhat distinguishable, and 
I don't know that a judge in another situation would knee-jerk allow 
this type of testimony. We are in a very unique situation here, and 
that's what we have.

Finally, the last thing that I want to do -I'm answering soliloquy 
with soliloquy here. I'm not sure if this is a dialogue. Finally, I 
am acutely cognizant of the fact that this trial has abundant media 
coverage, and it is surely not my intent to force a constitutional 
confrontation with two reporters and to create a side show that we 
don't need to. That's why we're meeting in chambers.

But I'll tell you that if it's their persistent position that they 
don't want to testify, then we'll go on the record -- now, I'm not 
going to put them on the witness stand. I don't think it's necessary
to do that. I would bring you and the reporters, I will tell you, 
to the bar. I will swear them in, I will have them sworn in. I 
will ask you the question whether they're going to testify. I will 
allow them to speak for themselves on that point, and then we'll 
decide what we're going to do at that point.

I don't know what else to do, but I'm not going to go through the 
charade of having them take the stand and assert, you know, as 
articulately as they can the privilege that they believe that they 
can avail themselves of.



    That's fine.



    I interrupted you, but I think it was necessary to do 
that.



    Well, let me share with you why I have the issue that I 
have. About a week and a half ago I had a telephone dialogue with 
Eric because I had proposed to Eric the possibility that in light of
your most current order and because you took out the issues of 
biases and things of that nature and because we're going to be 
called to trial by Eric, that maybe he should be speaking to Pat to
see whether they would be willing to accept the affidavit in lieu 
of the testimony.



    I think we're beyond that.



    Well, and then what happened was, we had a conference 
call, Eric, Pat, several others in Pat's office and myself and Terry.
They indicated that they would not. And then in the course of that 
conversation, the defendants counsel had stated, for example, we would 
like the opportunity to ask if they heard Mr. So and So say 
something, why didn't they write that. That's what I'm concerned about
with respect to --



    I'm not going to allow that question.



    But you weren't at the deposition, meaning you don't know 
that that question wouldn't be allowed and quite frankly yesterday you
were in trial.



    I said, though, very clearly in the last order, I 
thought, in the September 12th order, that I would be available. And 
I thought, when I heard that the reporters, quite frankly, appeared 
for depositions, that when I was on a break, I was going to hear 
an accumulated list of questions that were objected to and that I 
would have to rule on those questions.

Now, I don't have time to preside over a deposition at this late 
date. And I know that you respect that. You're experienced counsel 
and you know that. I do know from my private practice experience 
that I was extremely loathed to get a judge on the telephone in 
mid-deposition. That could be one of the most unhappy experiences that
a lawyer would have.



    You got it.



    Depending on the time of day and the personality of the 
judge.



    Especially after your last opinion on my case, I 
don't want to call you at all.



    As you see, I'm far more genial than I express in 
writing. What I invited by that opinion, though, was that I would be
available -- and I believe in an issue that is as important to the 
reporters and to you, as their counsel, as this, it is appropriate 
for you to stop a deposition on a question like that, instruct your 
witness not to answer, and allow the Court to rule on it. I was 
inviting you to do that. Now, I understand what your reasons are for
not doing that, and I think you can do that.

Now, if you're telling me that you have problems with certain 
anticipated questions but not others and if you're telling me that 
the reporters would not exercise the privilege if they were kept 
roughly within the confines of their affidavits --



    I go beyond that. I'm willing to have them testify as to 
what they wrote in the article and basically forget the affidavit.



    That's fine.



    That means everything that's set forth in that article.



    Well, then I think we've clarified that point. Then I 
think you should reschedule the depositions and try to do that.



    Well, if I can interject -- I mean, this is kind of like 
my last hurrah.



    We could only hope not.



    It depends what happens next week. Because we don't have 
an order with respect to trial testimony -- and we don't, except for 
the fact that, again, they're naked.



    I'll produce that order, if necessary.



    Well, let me share with you where I'm coming from, because
I think what I've done here -- and obviously I can't do your job. 
But what I'm proposing here, if you could just evaluate it.



    Depending how long this trial goes, you might be my guest
in terms of doing my job.



    All I'm doing is adding something to what it is that you 
basically have already written. And if I could just read this. You 
have no idea how long it took us to write this. Because I think it
does exactly what you just said.

It says, Wherein an affidavit is provided in lieu of testimony to 
support a newspaper article or newspaper articles, the reporter shall 
be obligated to testify as to the facts set forth in the articles, 
i.e., what was seen and heard as related in the newspaper articles.

By doing so, the reporters would be verbalizing the contents of said 
affidavit -- I think, actually, they were your words when we had the 
telephone conference -- by testifying as to what appears in the 
newspaper article or articles, unless such affidavit is otherwise 
accepted by all parties as validating and authenticating the contents 
of the newspaper article or articles in issue. Meaning if they accept
it, it becomes moot.

However, no testimony shall relate to unpublished material or 
information or to the reporters' motivations, bias, mental impressions, 
or other information extrinsic to what the reporter saw and heard, 
and the reporter shall not be obligated to reveal any confidential 
sources.

What I've tried to do here is to say, they'll testify as to 
everything that appeared in those articles. And how I then distinguish
this case from maybe my next case is, where an affidavit is 
provided and the Court or the parties don't accept the affidavit.

What I've done is, it says that there's no extraneous unpublished 
material questioning. That's the clarity that I need. And then, quite 
frankly, my mindset is, if the issue of the defendants is that we 
were biased in our reporting because we either misquoted somebody or 
whatever, well, this isn't a jury trial. You're trying this case. 
You're either going to believe the reporters or you're going to 
believe Mr. Buckingham or Mr. Bonsell or whomever when they say, I 
didn't say that. But my concern is that I have to have some degree 
of certainty by your order that they can't ask any questions as to 
unpublished materials.



    Are you suggesting that this language
should apply to both the depositions and the trial testimony? 


    Meaning if you could adapt language similar to this for the 
trial testimony and I agree, I have no problem in them being at a 
deposition prior to trial with the same kind of language relative to 
that. I will appear at a deposition prior to trial. I would like to
do that, because of my own health conditions, maybe on Friday in 
terms as to a deposition, if that works within anybody's schedule, 
and then maybe the latter part of next week. Because what I did 
was, I put my surgery off until next Friday to get this done.



    Well, the problem Friday, I assume you fellows are getting
out of here on Friday, but I'm not sure of that.



    Or we could do it Monday.
I mean, whatever works. 



    Well, we do have Friday morning
off.



    Right.



    Although you may have something scheduled in terms of 
pretrial planning. I'm not sure. Do you know?



    I have a plane flight.



    I was not going to be here.



    Do we need the whole team?



    I was the one going to take the deposition.



    Yeah, Ed was there yesterday.



    Alternatively?



    Well, we'll do what we have to do.



    Scheduling usually isn't my pay grade, but, you know, you 
can figure that out. Go ahead.



    Judge, if I may, there are some things here that we can
agree with, but there are others that we can't. And this is why, 
in our opinion, Judge. You know, if our clients are believed, the 
reporters did talk to them but took misrepresentative statements so 
that they left things out to put them in a false light and in so 
doing have created articles that, if they were admitted for the truth
of the matter asserted, would be misrepresentative.



    Well, that's what I'm not going to get into. And I 
understand and I respect that argument. But I think I've got to 
line-draw here someplace. And I understood that argument before. And 
what I don't want to do here is turn this into an oral argument on
things that I've already decided. And I know you respect that.

I think there is a privilege here, and I think the privilege 
sometimes gets drawn in what appears to be an ad hoc manner. But my
job is to find where to put the line down in this case. To 
traipse into the area of why they selectively used a quote as 
opposed to not using other things that were said I think is to get 
on a very slippery slope. It really almost precipitates a bias line 
of questioning, and I'm not going to allow it. I am trying to 
narrowly draw this.

I understand that that's not what the defendants want in this case, 
but I don't think it's called for. And, as a matter of fact, I 
think if I did that and I ordered that and if -- I assume that the 
reporters would not testify and I would predict, if it went to the 
Third Circuit on that basis, I would be reversed. I don't think that
that's a fair area of inquiry to get into.

This looks artificial when you're dealing with a fact witness, but 
these are fact witnesses who are also reporters, and I am straining 
to try to find a fair way to do this. I believe that to the 
extent -- and I've said this now several times -- that the reporters' 
testimony is necessary in order to invoke the residual hearsay 
exception under Rule 807, that the defendants have to have an 
opportunity to examine the reporters on the same topics and subjects 
that I would allow the plaintiffs to question them on during their 
case-in-chief, nothing more and nothing less.

So I'm inclined to accept this language, you know, not word for 
word, only to the extent where it states, rather generically, "wherein
an affidavit is provided," I would take that sentence and simply say
that affidavits have been provided, rather than "wherein." It's 
somewhat artificial or a little strained as it relates to this case.

The rest of it I don't have any problem because I think it does 
not do violence to my opinions. And this gets into a semantical 
exercise to some degree but one that is important, I understand, to 
the reporters. We have got to cut the Gordian knot here. Either --



    We can live with this, and they would testify if we had 
language similar to this.



    Well, my intention would be to enter an order that is a 
wrap-around order, if you will, that is, in effect, a 
re-reconsideration of the order on the depositions but also speaks to 
the trial testimony in chief. And it will be abbreviated because of 
the time constraints on me, but we'll issue it forthwith, and it 
will indicate that you're going to -- they're going to sit for 
depositions under those circumstances.



    Can I ask whether that would be reported?



    In what sense? When you say "reported," what do you mean 
by that?



    "Reported" meaning in the books.



    Oh, published. 
When you say "reported" and you're talking about reporters, then I'm 
thinking, I have enough work in this case. No, we wouldn't publish 
it, but there are reporters who can access the CM/ECF system.



    No, the reason why I'm asking whether it would be 
published, I don't know whether your original opinion --



    You're worried about the precedential value. No, it's not 
my intention to publish it. I have no need. However, good or bad 
news travels fast, and in the legal realm it will be cited by 
somebody someplace.



    You have no idea.



    Oh, you'd be surprised.



    Your Honor, just in an effort to avoid needless procedure
or inquiry, if I could just get a sense for what you have in mind
and intend by the order. If they show up for deposition and begin 
to testify about an article about June 14th, --



    Hypothetically?



    Hypothetically. Would we be at liberty to say, did you 
hear anything else, did you see anything else? 



    No, because
-- and I know this is difficult, but it goes like this. And this is
the best I can put it, other than what I tried to do in my 
opinion. We have articles. We have a situation where the declarants, 
the quoted individuals, have apparently denied -- either denied, I guess
-- I'm not sure about this. This is my understanding, either denied 
that they said what was reported in the articles or said that they 
were statements taken out of context. And they can speak for 
themselves. And that's one of the reasons that I'm line-drawing here. 
They can say that, and I'll take that under consideration.

But from the reporters' perspective, were they at the meeting. The 
obvious answer is yes, but they haven't answered that under oath. Did
they hear the statement that is included in the article? Perhaps 
where were they standing in the room, did they utilize a tape 
recorder for the purpose of taking down the statement or did they 
use a tape recorder and did they take notes contemporaneously with 
the statement. How long after the meeting did they write their 
article, did they use the tape recorder, did they use notes as it 
related to that statement. Those are the types of inquiries that 
relate specifically to the contents of the article.

To allay Mr. Benn's concerns, I think it is not fair game to talk 
about all the other things that they heard and why they wrote the 
article the way they did and why they excluded quotes. I sincerely 
believe that that gets into journalistic integrity, and that's 
problematic, and it's not my intent to allow that, nor would I allow
any questioning on anything personal to the reporters. I think I 
spelled that out in detail in the prior orders.

We are going to simply have them testify for the purpose of 
authenticating the contents of that article, nothing more, nothing 
less, because I really believe that to do more than that is to 
create, I think, a precedent which would have reporters called -- Mr. 
Benn, I think, fears that even this would do that. I don't share 
that fear. But to go any further than that would mean that a 
reporter's veracity could be questioned each and every time something 
like this comes up. I strain mightily not to have to do that. 
That's what I'm talking about. Now, I don't know if that clarifies 
it.



    It does, Your Honor, I think in large measure. And I 
would ask this, with your leave, would it suffice to preserve my 
objection that I object here in chambers on the record?



    That's fine. And I note that, and that's why I wanted to
do this on the record. And I understand that you object to that, 
and I understand the defendants have interposed not only this 
objection but they have also argued against that. And to the extent 
that this really clarifies and reasserts what I have in my prior 
orders, I think you've preserved your position as it relates to that,
and I understand that position.



    Thank you.



    Anything from the plaintiffs?



    We have no objection to the proposed modification, Your 
Honor.



    All right. So with that brief change to what is a little
bit awkward in the first sentence, the "wherein" -- and I don't mean 
that facetiously, but just as it relates to this case, because this 
almost looks like it's a contracted or --



    I understand. I just wanted to make sure the word 
"affidavit" was in there.



    We will recite that. We will get a clarifying order out.

Now, for the purpose of -- because this is a very public trial. 
What's your intention, what are your thoughts regarding how we should 
address this? Because it's known that this is a festering controversy.



    That's an interesting question. I mean, if we're not called
today, which we're not going to be, I don't know that it really is
an issue. We just had dialogue in chambers, the judge is going to 
be entering an order, and after we receive the order, we'll be able 
to make a decision in terms of where we proceed.



    Well, I don't know about that. I think you can assume, 
unless you doubt my word, I'm going to issue an order -- and I'm 
very serious -- I'm going to issue an order and that order will be 
forthwith. I would prefer that --



    We can say that we've restricted the order in such a 
fashion that we believe the reporters will testify.



    If I might be so bold, that we are satisfied with the 
resolution.



    Thank you.



    We expect an order that is consistent with our 
understanding of an agreement that we reached -- I will let it to you
to address that. And my intention would not be to address this 
again in open court this afternoon. We would just move on. You have 
other witnesses, I assume, to present, and we can move through this. 
I'm simply saying I don't want wiggle room that we're waiting to 
see, because I've had that experience now before.



    If you indicate to me as you have, that this is 
satisfactory to you, I will indicate that we are satisfied with the 
prospective order that we understand the Court is going to enter and 
that our clients will be testifying at deposition and at trial.



    Because I'll adopt this, but I don't want to do this 
again.



    I understand.



    And you don't want to do it again, I know, I recognize.



    Your Honor, just one other clarification question. With 
regard to asking what they saw and heard with regard to all of the 
statements and the articles, I would assume that's statements made 
after the gavel banged and the meeting was over. Some of those 
quotes are afterwards.



    Yes.



    But can questions be asked as far as the context of 
those statements? THE COURT: Ask the question that you want to ask.



    When so and so said this thing, you know, it was in 
response to what, what question or what else was being talked about 
when this statement was made.



    No. That's too amorphous a question. The issue here, I'll 
restate, is the veracity of the articles themselves, did the reporter 
hear the statement as reported. If it was taken out of context, 
we're not going to delve into that in this examination. The 
individual who believes -- who was quoted and believes the statement 
was taken out of context or flatly that he didn't or she didn't say
it and it's inaccurate will have the opportunity to say that during 
the defendants case-in-chief or at any other time during the trial.

We're not going to side door, you know, a bias argument by going 
into context. Context is a dangerous thing as it relates to what 
we're doing here. So, no, it's -- we presume that the statement was 
likely given to the reporter upon a question being asked by the 
reporter, although it could have been volunteered. That's of no 
moment.

The issue is, did the reporter hear the statement, was it reported 
adequately, not was it reported out of context, but did those words, 
as quoted, come out of that individual's mouth. Now, I can't be any 
clearer than that. All right?



    Your Honor, one thing I might ask, since it is perhaps 
likely that issues are going to arise during the deposition, I'm 
wondering if we could now attempt to schedule the deposition at a 
time when everybody, including Your Honor, might be available to 
intercede.



    Well, what's your next day that would be available if not
Friday?



    Monday.



    Well, Monday I'll be in chambers in Williamsport all day.



    I cannot do it Monday because I couldn't get here on 
Sunday. My wife is going out of town, and I have to watch all the 
kids. I could do it Tuesday, I could do it Wednesday.



    Tuesday and Wednesday is a Jewish holiday for me. I can't 
do it.



    How about tomorrow?



    I'm leaving tomorrow.



    Well, look, if it's any weekday other than next Friday 
when I will not be available -- I'll be traveling next Friday -- I'll 
be available. And, you know, we'll work through that issue. And if 
you're otherwise taking the deposition and we're at trial, I'll tell 
you that we'll construct some mechanism -- and we kind of talked about
this a little bit yesterday -- where you hold the thought if counsel 
instructs the reporters not to answer because it's a problematic 
question, and we can circle back and we'll deal with that later.

I understand those things could come up in the course of the 
deposition, and I'll rule on those as I can if I'm not instantly 
available. So whether I'm sitting at trial or not -- and likely it 
will be a day when I'm sitting in trial -- we'll deal with it.



    How about later today?



    You work that out. Let's get back on the record here, 
because we've got people waiting and I want to get going. You'll 
have to work that out. But I will tell you in concluding that if 
it is at night, if you do it at night, I will give you my home 
number, and you can contact me so we get this finished. If we have 
to do that, we'll do it so we get it finished. I will not attend 
the deposition, though. I stopped doing that when I got this job. 
Anything else? 



    No. Thank you, Your Honor.



    Thank you, Your Honor.



   (The discussion in chambers was concluded.)



    We return in session, and I want to apologize to the 
assembled spectators and, of course, to the media. We handled a 
matter in chambers that you'll become aware of in an effort to 
resolve a problem, and I think we did. These things arise during 
trials from time to time. That is the first time that we've had 
that type of matter in this trial. We may have others as the trial 
unfolds. But it was a necessary exercise. And we try to keep them 
at a minimum and we will keep them at a minimum during the trial.

But with that, we will go back to the plaintiffs. You may call your
next witness.



    Your Honor, the plaintiffs would call Julie
Smith.


   JULIE SMITH, called as a witness, having been duly sworn or affirmed, testified as follows:


   DIRECT EXAMINATION BY MR. HARVEY:



   Please tell us your name.


   Julie Ann Smith.


   Where do you live, Ms. Smith?


   Honey Run Drive, York, Pa.


   And is that within the area covered by the Dover Area School District?


   Yes, it is.


   And how long have you lived there?


   Fourteen years.


   Do you have any children?


   Yes, I have two children.


   How old are they?


   My daughter Katherine is 16, and my son Michael is 19.


   Your daughter Katherine, what school does she attend?


   Dover High School.


   What grade is she in?


   She's in eleventh grade.


   Please tell us what you do for a living.


   I'm a medical technologist.


   And please summarize for us your educational background.


   I graduated high school in 1979, and I graduated at York College with a degree in medical technology in 1984.


   Now, did there come a time when you learned that the Dover Area School District Board of Directors was considering approval of a biology textbook?


   Yes.


   And tell us, when did you learn that?


   I learned that in June of '04.


   And what was the basis for your knowledge?


   I read it in the paper.


   Do you remember what you read?


   Yeah, I read it in the York Daily Record, and, yes, I do remember.


   Please tell us what you remember learning at that time.


   That the school district was very concerned about approving a biology text that did not include creationism.


   And do you remember anything else that you learned at that time?


   Not right off the top of my head.


   Okay. Did there come a time when you learned that the school district board of directors had approved a biology text?


   Yes, they did in August.


   And what was the basis for you learning that at that time?


   I read about it in the paper.


   And did there come a time when you learned that the school district board of directors was considering a supplemental textbook?


   Yes.


   And what was the basis for your knowledge of that?


   I learned that from the paper, also.


   And what did you learn?


   That they were going to have Of Pandas and People in the classroom as a supplemental text to the biology book.


   And did you learn about where that book was going to come from?


   It was donated.


   Now, did there come a time when you learned that the board had made a change to the biology curriculum?


   Yes.


   And approximately when was that?


   In October, I believe it was, in '04. It was in the newspaper that they were going to be teaching their intelligent design from Of Pandas and People.


   And did you attend that board meeting?


   No.


   And did you learn anything else from reading the newspapers at that time?


   Well, that they were going to read the statement in the classroom, yes.


   Okay. Now, I'd like to ask you to take a look in the notebook at what's been marked as P127.


   Yes.


   Can you tell us what it is?


   It's the newsletter that came to the house in the mail that told -- that had the statement included that they were going to be teaching in the biology class.


   Now, do you know approximately when you received this?


   Well, it says it was February, so I'm assuming it was February.


   Did there come a time when -- let me withdraw that. Do you believe that the board's actions in this case, the change to the biology curriculum and its other actions, have caused you harm?


   Yes, I do.


   And can you tell us what harm you believe that it has caused you?


   Late in '04 my daughter came home from school, and I was discussing kind of what was going on in the district with her. And she looked at me and she said, Well, Mom, evolution is a lie, what kind of Christian are you, anyway, which I found to be very upsetting.


   Did you ask her why she said that?


   Yeah, I asked her why she said that, and she said in school what they had been talking about or amongst her friends and what's going on. She seemed to be under the impression that as a Christian, she could not believe that evolution was a science that, you know, was true.


   And how did that harm you?


   Well, it goes against my beliefs. I have no problems with my faith and evolution. They're not mutually exclusive.


    No further questions of this witness. 



    All 
right. Cross-examine, Mr. Thompson. 



    Thank you, Your 
Honor. 



   CROSS-EXAMINATION BY MR. THOMPSON:



   Mrs. Smith, my name is Richard Thompson. I represent the defendants in this case. And do you recall in April where your deposition was taken by another member of the Thomas More Law Center, Patrick Gillen? Do you remember being involved in that deposition?


   Yes, I do.


   Were you present in court for all the testimony that has been given in this trial?


   No.


   When did you get to court?


   Tuesday morning.


   Now, whose testimony have you heard so far?


   I heard some of Ken Miller's. I heard Barrie Callahan, Bryan Rehm. I heard the gentleman this morning.


   Okay. You were asked to become a plaintiff in this case by the ACLU, were you not?


   No.


   Didn't someone from the ACLU call you?


   Yes, they called me. But I was actually asked by my friend at work, who said to me, would you be interested in having the ACLU contact you, and I said yes.


   And so the ACLU contacted you, and you agreed to become a plaintiff in this case?


   Yes.


   Now, will you agree with me that the policy which is the subject matter of this lawsuit, the curriculum change in the biology for ninth grade, took place on October 18th, 2004?


   Yes.


   That's when the board passed the resolution that changed the biology curriculum?


   I believe so, yes.


   And that policy was implemented for the first time in January of 2005. Is that correct?


   That's correct.


   In January, 2005, where was your son?


   My son was in college.


   So he had already graduated from Dover High School?


   Yes, that's correct.


   And in January, 2005, where was your daughter?


   She was in school.


   What grade?


   She was in grade ten.


   So you will agree with me that this biology curriculum really only affected, as far as the statement was read, ninth-grade biology students?


   No, that's not true.


   So the statement was read to other classes?


   No, but it would affect all the students at the school.


   Well, listen to my question. This policy provided that the statement was read to ninth-grade biology students. Do you agree with that?


   I agree it was read to ninth-grade biology students.


   Okay. And your daughter had already graduated from the ninth grade?


   That's correct.


   So at the time that this policy was implemented, both of your children were out of the ninth grade?


   That's correct.


   Neither one of them would be subject to the statement being read to them. Is that correct?


   That's correct.


   Okay. Now, you indicated to your lawyer that you got involved because of newspaper articles that you read?


   That's correct.


   Okay. Now, is it an accurate statement that in the year 2004, prior to you becoming a plaintiff in this case, you had never attended a single board meeting --


   That's not correct.


   -- in 2004?


   In 2004, that's correct.


   Okay. Just please answer my question and then your attorney can ask you to explain if he wants to. So in 2004, prior to this -- prior to you becoming a plaintiff, you never attended a board meeting in that year?


   In that year.


   Okay.


   Before that, yes.


   In 2003, you never attended a board meeting. Is that correct?


   No, I had attended board meetings previously.


   I didn't ask you that question. I asked you, in 2003, did you attend a board meeting?


   I'm going to say I don't remember which board meetings I attended.


   In --



    Objection. Arguing with the witness and beyond the
scope --



    I'm asking questions.



    Excuse me, and beyond the scope
of direct.



    Wait, wait. One at a time. Let him finish, Mr. Thompson. 
Finish the objection.



    Objection, arguing with the witness and beyond the scope 
of direct.



    I don't find it beyond the scope of direct. It's 
appropriate cross-examination. It's overruled on that basis. We're 
getting argumentative only because I think the witness and counsel are
talking over each other. Each of you let the other finish before 
you start talking.



    I apologize, Your Honor.



    There's a great temptation in cross-examination to talk 
over. That happens. So let's get a question on the floor. Why don't 
you restate your question, Mr. Thompson.



    Okay.



   BY MR. THOMPSON



   Is it true that you did not attend a board meeting in the year 2003?


   I'm not going to say that's not true. I don't remember which board meetings I attended. I did attend some before '04.


   Is it true that you didn't attend a board meeting in 2002?


   I told you I don't remember which year I -- I attended board meetings during the construction project, so when that was, that's when I was there.


   And that was the year 2000, was it not?


   I don't remember.


   Mrs. Smith, I'm going to hand you --


   Your Honor, may I 
approach the witness? 



    You may.



   BY MR. THOMPSON


   Mrs. Smith, I'm going to hand you what purports to be your deposition that was taken by Patrick Gillen. I would like you to direct your attention to Page 13, and I would like you to read out loud the question that you are asked starting with Line 18 and all the way down through that page and then going on to the next page, Page 14, and reading from Line 1 through Line 4. And please read it out loud.


   You want me to read out loud starting on 18?


   Line that starts with Q, which represents the question that was asked by Mr. Gillen, and A represents your answer. Would you please read it out loud.


   "Let me just make sure I get you there and go on. You attended board meetings. Give me a sense of which ones you attended. They were not the board meetings" --


   Now give me your answer. So that the record will reflect, that was the question and now your answer, starting with Line 21.


   You want me to read it?


   Yes.


   "They were not the board meetings, and we were not discussing intelligent design. When I went to some board meetings, it was several years ago. We were discussing the building project, and it has nothing to do with the intelligent design."


   And then go on to the next page, and the question that Mr. Gillen asked you starting on Line 1?


   "That is all I am trying to get a sense for. I am not familiar with the dates for the building project. Was that '03 or '02?"


   "Was that 2003 or 2002," is that right, the question?


   That's correct.


   Okay. And what was your answer?


   "I would say more like 2000."


   So was that an accurate reflection of your memory at the time that the deposition was taken?


   Yes.


   Okay. Does that seem right that the board meetings that you attended prior to being a plaintiff in a lawsuit was in the year 2000?


   If that's what I said, that's what I recalled at the time, yes.


   So based upon the response that you gave to your attorney, is it a fair statement that you began as a plaintiff in this case in December, 2004, without ever having personally witnessed the actions of the Dover School Board as they debated and enacted the policy on which this lawsuit is based? MR. HARVEY: Objection. It's compound. 


   BY MR. THOMPSON


   Can you answer that question? 



    Now, wait. She's not 
going to answer it until I rule on the objection. Elaborate on your 
objection.



    I think there are several predicates to that question. He
asked whether you were present at any of the board meetings while 
they debated and then enacted this resolution, and I'm not aware of 
any testimony that they debated the resolution.



    Well, I think it's a fair characterization that there was 
discussion about the
policy. I'll overrule the objection. You can answer
the question. Do you recall the question?



    No.



    Let's have the question read back, please.



   (Previous question read back.)



    That's correct.



   BY MR. THOMPSON


   In fact, all of the information upon which you -- strike that. In fact, the information that you were getting about what the school board was doing in 2004 came from newspapers. Is that correct?


   That's correct.


   And I believe in your deposition you indicated that you looked at the morning newspapers almost on a daily basis?


   That's correct.


   And when you were looking at the morning newspapers, that you got very upset about what you read regarding the Dover School Board and the policies that they were debating. Is that correct?


   That's correct.


   What were the two -- what were the newspapers that you were looking at during this time?


   I read the Daily Record every morning.


   What about the York Dispatch?


   Not regularly, no.


   Okay. So that it would be a fair statement that even though what you were reading in the newspapers got you upset, that you never personally attended one of the board meetings in that year?


   That's correct. There were personal issues in my life at that time where I was not able to do that.


   And it is true that you never spoke to any of the members of the Dover School Board about the issues that concerned you. Is that correct?


   That's correct.


   You never called them. Is that correct?


   That's correct.


   You never e-mailed them. Is that correct?


   That's correct.


   Did you write letters to the editor about what the school board was doing?


   No.


   So that the first time that the school board would know that you were upset with their actions is when they learned of you being a plaintiff in this lawsuit. Is that correct?


   That's correct.


   Okay. Now, did you ever speak to any of the teachers at Dover High School before you became a plaintiff in this case?


   No.


   Did you ever speak to any of the reporters who had written the stories about what the Dover School Board was doing during this time?


   No.


   Did you ever receive any minutes or notes about what the Dover School Board was doing during this time?


   No.


   You never sent anyone e-mails or any other communication regarding this issue. Is that a fair statement?


   That's a fair statement.


   In fact, one of the issues in this case is this book Of Pandas and People. Is that correct?


   That's correct.


   You never looked at the book Of Pandas and People before you became a plaintiff in this lawsuit, did you?


   I didn't feel that I could look at it. It was in -- I guess it was in the library at the school, but I was not aware if we could go in the school library and take out books or not.


   Well, did you make any effort to go and look at it?


   I really wasn't interested.


   Now, your attorney referred to a newsletter that you received in February. Do you have a copy of that newsletter in front of you?


   Yes.


   And I believe you indicated that you thought the newsletter was sent in February, 2002?


   No.


   Excuse me, 2005. Excuse me.


   Correct.


   Okay. Could we have that newsletter? I would like you to read from that newsletter on the top left-hand side in that box. Read it out loud, please.


   "This newsletter has been produced to help explain the changes in the biology curriculum. Unfortunately, a great deal of misinformation has been spread regarding this policy. We hope this publication will help those interested better understand the substance of the policy while eliminating any misconceptions some may have about the curriculum change. We sincerely appreciate your understanding on this matter."


   Thank you. It was through this policy that you first learned about the statement that was going to be read. Is that correct?


   No, I believe -- no, I heard about it before.


   But did you actually see the statement before?


   I don't think so.


   So this was the first time that you saw the statement that was going to be read to the students in the ninth-grade biology class. Is that correct?


   I believe so.


   Okay.


   As far as I can tell.


   And so this newsletter was actually providing information to the residents of Dover as to what the actual newsletter was -- excuse me, what the actual statement was going to say. Is that correct?


   Yes.


   Okay. So you had no problem with the fact that the newsletter was being produced, even though you had a problem with the policy. Is that correct?


   No.


   Now, there's a bit of street wisdom, and I don't know whether you agree with this or not, and that street wisdom is, don't believe everything you read in the newspapers. Have you ever heard that?


   Yeah, I've heard that before.


   Okay. And so if you don't believe everything in the newspapers, don't you think before you became a plaintiff in a lawsuit that you should have taken some personal action to verify whether things that were produced in a newspaper were really accurate?


   I did talk to people in the district, other people in the district.


   Who did you talk to?


   People that I work with, other people in the district.


   But you never even saw the policy until that newsletter came out. Is that correct?


   I got my information from the newspaper, yes.


   And the newspaper. Now, have you ever had involvement with newspapers before? Have you been interviewed? Have you been interviewed by news reporters before?


   No.


   But would it be a fair statement to say in the normal experience that newspaper reporters might spend five, ten, or fifteen minutes interviewing a person and then only put one line of that interview in an article?


    Objection. No foundation that she has any experience as 
referred to in the question.



    Do you want to respond to that Mr. Thompson?



    Well, I think it's common experience and it's knowledge,
it's common sense.



    Now I think we're going afield. I'll sustain the 
objection. We're now clearly outside the scope of direct, the 
objection is sustained. 



   BY MR. THOMPSON


   Well, you said that you were upset by the policy because it conflicts with your religion?


   I said I was upset about it because I didn't find a problem with it with my religion. It does not -- I'm getting confused. I have a problem with it because my daughter came home from school and she says to me, What kind of Christian are you, anyway? So that's why I have a problem with it.


   If you recall your deposition -- and I certainly will give you an opportunity to look at it if you don't recall it -- the incident that you're referring to, also you received information that your daughter was a member of a Bible club. Right?


   Yes.


   And up to that point, you were not even aware she was a member of a Bible club. Isn't that correct?


   That's correct.


   And that it was -- she had a lot of friends who went to Protestant fundamental churches. Is that correct?


   Yes, she does.


   And she received that information from her friends, her Protestant friends in school or in the Bible club. Isn't that correct?


   I would assume that's where she got her information, from the Bible club at school. Plus they talked about it.


   And the fact that someone believes in intelligent design does not make that inconsistent with the Catholic faith, does it?


   I spoke to my deacon about this situation, and all I know is what he told me.


   Is he a theologian?


   He's a deacon at St. Rose Catholic Church.


   Do you know if he has any particular expertise in Catholic theology?


    Objection again. Beyond the scope of direct, Your Honor.



    She brought the issue up of religion, Your Honor, and 
I'm exploring that.



    Well, I think it is beyond the scope, again, the 
colorable scope of direct, and I'll sustain the objection. This is 
not a deposition. This is testimony in the case-in-chief, and we're 
afield.



   BY MR. THOMPSON


   Now, the book Of Pandas and People, you don't mind that book being in the library, do you?


   No, I don't have a problem with it being in the library.


   You heard yesterday, if you attended the deposition of -- excuse me, the testimony of Mr. Rehm's, that the science teachers, in a compromised move, had agreed to put Of Pandas and People in the science class. Did you hear that? 


    
Objection, Your Honor. Mischaracterizes the testimony.



    In what sense?



    I believe Mr. Rehm testified
that the teachers did not agree to put the materials in the science 
class. 



    Your Honor, my understanding in --



    And --



    Now, wait, Mr. Harvey. Let Mr. Thompson speak. One at a 
time.



    Your Honor, my memory, if it serves me correct, Mr. 
Rehm testified that they had reached a compromise with some of the 
board members that they were going to allow the book Of Pandas and 
People in the science classroom.



    My recollection is that he may not have used the word 
"compromise," he may have used the word "concession." I'm not sure 
that there's a distinction as it applies here. I'll overrule the 
objection. Did you hear Mr. Rehm's testimony yesterday?



    Yes.



    Well, then go ahead.



   BY MR. THOMPSON


   Whether it's "concession" or "compromise," did you hear that the teachers had agreed to put Of Pandas and People in the science classroom?


   I don't remember exactly what he said yesterday.




    No further questions, Your Honor.



    All right. 
Thank you,
Mr. Thompson. Any redirect? 




    No, Your Honor.



    
Then, ma'am, you may step down.

That will complete your testimony. And I don't think we have any 
exhibits to enter, do we? 



    That's correct, Your Honor.
P127 is already in evidence.



    You may call your next 
witness.



    Your Honor, the plaintiffs call
to the stand Plaintiff Christy Rehm. 


   CHRISTY REHM, called as a witness, having been duly sworn or affirmed, testified as follows: 



    Your Honor, again, may I make sure that she has the binder 
of exhibits? 



    You certainly may. 



   DIRECT EXAMINATION BY MR. HARVEY


   Please tell us your name.


   Christy Rehm.


   Are you married, Mrs. Rehm?


   Yes.


   Tell us the name of your husband.


   Bryan Rehm.


   Please clarify for us one important question, and that is, exactly how old are your children?


   My children?


   Yes.


   I have a 14-year-old daughter, Alix, an eight-year-old daughter Paige, a seven-year-old son Ian, and a 15-month-old son Lucas.


   And where does your family live? I mean your immediate family, you and your husband and your children.


   Rock Creek Drive, Dover, Pennsylvania.


   And how long have you lived there?


   Approximately five years.


   And had you lived in Dover previously to that in your life?


   Yes. I grew up in Dover, I attended Dover High School, graduated from Dover High School. My family, my extended family, lives in the Dover area, including my grandparents, my parents, and other relatives. My parents currently still live in the Dover area.


   And please tell us where your children are right now in school, the grades, please.


   Grade level, okay, yes. The oldest is in ninth grade, the next one is in the third grade. I have a first-grader, and then obviously the baby is not in school yet.


   And the oldest three children, do they attend the public schools in Dover?


   Yes. Two of them, my oldest is at the high school, the Dover High School, and then I have -- the next one is at the Weiglestown Elementary School. And my son is hearing-impaired, so he is charged with the education of Dover School District, meaning that they have to provide his education, but he actually attends classes at a hearing-impaired classroom.


   And your daughter that's in the ninth grade, is that at the Dover High School?


   Yes.


   And is she taking biology now?


   Yes, she is.


   Please summarize for us your educational background.


   As I said, I graduated from Dover High School. I attended Lock Haven University and Millersville University. I received a BA from Millersville University in English, and I also have a degree in journalism, as well. I later got a teaching certification and attended Penn State University where I received my master's degree.


   Do you work outside the home?


   Yes, I do.


   What do you do?


   I'm a teacher, an English teacher.


   Where do you teach?


   In a public school system outside of York County.


   And what grade do you teach?


   High-school level, so tenth through twelfth grade generally.


   Did there come a time when you learned that the Dover Area School District Board of Directors was considering a change to -- was considering approval of a biology textbook?


   Yes.


   Do you remember when that was?


   It was sometime in 2004. It was prior to the June meetings because my husband was a teacher at the school, so I often heard things that he would come home and tell me. So I knew that there was some discussion over the biology book, so sometime before that. I can't tell you exactly when.


   Did you attend a meeting of the Dover Area School District Board of Directors on June the 7th of 2004?


   Yes, I did.


   And why did you attend that meeting?


   Well, because, like I said, my husband had been a teacher at the school, and he had sort of been directed by the high school principal to attend the meeting in support of the different things that were happening. There were other textbooks that were being adopted and controversies over them, and, you know, it was sort of a rallying thing, I suppose. And I went along because I live in the district, I pay taxes in the district, my children attend school in the district. I'm an educator, and I was curious about what was happening.


   And can you recall anything that happened at that meeting on June the 7th?


   I recall a lot of things that were happening at that meeting.


   Please tell us what you can remember about that meeting.


   Okay. Some of the -- I attended a lot of meetings, so facts blur together. What I do recall, I -- as my husband said yesterday, I was pregnant at the time, so I have some reason to remember certain things. But I recall Barrie Callahan speaking about the textbook. It was the first time that I had really ever been around Barrie Callahan, so she strikes me -that memory strikes me because my mother had known her previously. And she was speaking about the textbook, just questioning them. I don't remember her exact words. But I do know that she was upset with them about this textbook, the textbook process, the students not having a textbook. Obviously it was very distressing for her that the students in the biology class did not have a textbook.


   Do you remember if any board member spoke back to her in response to her questions?


   Yes. Bill Buckingham said to her -- and I know Bill Buckingham because at the time he lived down the street from my grandparents and for many years lived there. And he responded to her basically saying that there's, you know, a problem with the textbook, it needs to be balanced, comments about laced with Darwinism, it needed to be balanced with creationism. Comments of that nature is what he had said to her.


   Do you remember --


   I'm sorry.


   I'm sorry.


   And I distinctly recall Barrie Callahan sort of throwing her hands up in the air and saying, Oh, so this is about evolution. That was very distinct in my mind, just her mannerisms as she said that.


   Do you recall a young man by the name of Max Pell speaking at that meeting?


   Unfortunately I was in the restroom at the time that Max Pell was speaking because -- my husband told you I was eight months pregnant. I was actually nine months pregnant and due any day, so I spent quite a deal of time in the restroom. But I had excused myself to go to the restroom just after Barrie did this whole thing. In fact, I may have been walking out of the room at the time and in close proximity to her. And so at the time when Max was speaking -- I believe that there were people who spoke in between she and Max Pell. But at the time when he stood to speak, I was in the restroom and sort of coming back from the restroom, so I don't really recall exactly what his comments were. I know him because he was my husband's student, though.


   Do you recall any other board members saying anything during the course of any discussion about the biology textbook?


   Well, like I said, I was reentering the room from the bathroom, so I was sort of in the doorway. And I obviously didn't know what Max had said to the board but that he had spoken to the board. So the comments that were coming back were, I assume, directed at him. But there were comments from Bill Buckingham about brainwashing, and I remember hearing that, the whole thing about brainwashing, because it dealt with going to college and getting this education and students who go to college become brainwashed. And I was very upset by that because I attended college and I don't feel as if I were brainwashed. And also I recall Alan Bonsell making a comment about, you know, there are only two theories, there's this theory evolution and there's this theory creation, and if you're teaching only those two theories, then there's not a problem.


   Do you recall anything else Mr. Bonsell said?


   At this time, no.


   Do you remember anything else that was said by any members of the public at that meeting?


   At that meeting. Currently, I don't.


   I'd like you to take a look at what's been marked as Exhibit P46. It's in the notebook in front of you. Just take a moment to look at it.


   Okay.


   Do you have that in front of you?


   Yes.


   Have you ever seen it before?


   This article, yes.


   Did you see it at or around the date that it was published?


   Yes, I did.


   What's the date on it?


   The date is June 9th, 2004.


   Who is the author?


   The author is Joseph Maldonado.


   And can you tell us what publication its from?


   Yes. It is from the York Daily Record.


   Now, did you just have an opportunity to read it just a moment ago?


   Just now I skimmed it, yes.


   Take another moment to look at it if you need to, but I would like to know whether it refreshes your recollection about anything else that happened at that meeting.


   Yes.


   Okay. Tell us what else -- after looking at that article, do you remember anything else that happened at the meeting?


   Yes, I do recall Bill Buckingham making comments about, you know, the apes and monkeys -coming from apes and monkeys. And I also --



    Your Honor, again, objection. It appears she's going to be 
reading from the article with her testimony.



    I'm sorry.



    It's a little hard to do this, but we'll sustain the 
objection. Mr. Muise's objection is well-founded. Let me explain how 
we can do this, how we must do this.

When your counsel asks you the question, you may review the article, 
take a look at it, see if it refreshes your recollection. It's 
important that having refreshed your recollection, if it jogs something
or re-creates a memory, that you testify in answer to Mr. Harvey's 
question. Do not look back and read from the article as you're 
testifying, please. All right?



    Yes. Sorry.



   BY MR. HARVEY


   Now, do you remember anything else that happened at that meeting?


   Yes. I remember comments about our country being founded on Christianity and not needing to teach the faiths of other people. And I remember talking to my husband about that in the car ride home, as well, because we're both teachers and I was -- when I hear things like that, I immediately think of my students, and I was thinking about the diverse group of students that I have in my classroom, who all have different religious viewpoints, and how difficult that would be to tell one student that, you know, we can't express your belief, but we can express that person's belief in the classroom. And I just find those things to be very upsetting when I hear things like that being said.


   Now, do you remember if you attended another meeting of the Dover Area School District Board of Directors approximately a week later on June the 14th?


   Yes, I did.


   And why did you attend that meeting?


   Well, because there wasn't really a clear resolution to what had occurred the previous meeting. In addition, I was very angry when I left the June 7th meeting just because of the demeanor of the school board and the things that were being said. And, honestly, I thought that maybe it would set me into labor because of, you know, being angry, and at that point in time I was past my due date, in addition to caring about my children's education and everything I said previously.


   Now, tell us what you can recall of the June 14th, board meeting.


   Again, there were many, many things that happened at that school board meeting, and I can tell you that I was very much interested in what was being said. And so I pretty well made sure, at the beginning of that meeting, which went on for quite a long time, that I wouldn't miss anything, so I took care of my bathroom needs beforehand. And I recall the meeting starting with Bill Buckingham sort of -- I'm sorry, Trudy Peterman spoke about her -- actually, hold on. Give me one second to think about this. Yes, Trudy Peterman spoke. She was the high school principal at the time. And I know that she spoke because the thing that she said seemed very similar to her graduation speech that she had said just previously. My sister had graduated that year, and I attended the commencement ceremony. And she had talked about Visigoths and things like that that she had spoken about in her commencement speech. And essentially she was speaking up for the teachers and the biology textbook. And after she had spoken, Bertha Spahr also spoke, as well. She's the department chairperson, and, actually, I had her as a science teacher. And she presented information to the board, documents, that she and I believe other members of the science department had researched on, I guess cases that had been set down before on creationism in the public school system or something of that nature, just to show them that, you know, if they were still considering this idea, that they might, I don't know, be met with some litigation or something. After she spoke, Bill Buckingham had made a comment to her about her -- where did she get her law degree from. Can you give me one second? I'm wondering if I'm getting my meetings mixed up.


    Objection, Your Honor. This is running into a narrative.



    Well, I think it's still responsive to the question. Do 
you want to put a question on the floor?



    She was just thinking.



   BY MR. HARVEY


   Did you need to think and change your testimony in any way?


   I just wanted to make sure that I wasn't getting my meetings mixed up.



    You can finish your answer. Do you want to 
finish the answer, or is that your answer?  


    Yes, that's 
my answer. I'm sorry, I recall something else, as well. I recall 
Charlotte Buckingham, who is Bill Buckingham's wife, speaking at that 
meeting, as well.

Essentially there were a lot of people in the community who were 
standing and speaking at this meeting because they wanted to warn the
school board that they were not in favor of any legal action coming
against the community, against the school board. They were afraid for
their tax dollars.

And Charlotte Buckingham I recall really being the only person who 
got up to stand in defense of the school board, and she was Mr. 
Buckingham's wife, or is Mr. Buckingham's wife. And she quoted 
Scripture, Old Testament, actually, all Old Testament Scripture about 
why the school board is right, basically. And she also talked about 
school prayer and the need for school prayer in that speech that she
had prepared.

In addition, Reverend Warren Eshbach stood
up and spoke at that meeting, as well, sort of urging the school 
board not to proceed with this. And many other members of the 
community spoke, as well.



   BY MR. HARVEY


   Did your husband speak?


   I recall my husband speaking. In fact, he hadn't prepared to speak, but he was very upset, as many people in the audience were, and he stood up to speak. I don't remember his exact comments, but, again, it was a warning to the school board and -actually, not necessarily a warning, but just sort of reiterating what science teachers do in their science classes and how there is really no conflict here with the textbook.


    
Objection, Your Honor. It's a
narrative. The question was, did your husband speak.



    Yes,
he spoke.



    My next question was going to
be simply if you could tell us what -- but I think she's already 
told us what she can recall her husband said.



    Well, that answered the next question. That moots the 
objection, and you can move to the next question.



   BY MR. HARVEY


   Do you remember Bill Buckingham speaking at this meeting?


   Oh, yes. There were not many meetings where Bill Buckingham did not speak. And, actually, at that meeting -- I believe the beginning of the meeting was an apology, actually, which he had prepared in advance apologizing to the members of the community if he had said anything that offended them. And it seemed to me sort of an inappropriate apology because -- or maybe "inappropriate" is not the correct word, but not a sincere apology because almost immediately after he had given his apology, he started doing the same things that he had always done, which was to demean the public, to say negative comments.


   Do you remember specifically anything he said?


   Yes. He made comments like, years ago someone died on the Cross, can't we take a stand for Him. He made comments about the liberals in black robes coming and taking away our freedoms in the school. He made many, many comments at that meeting.


   Now, did you attend any other meetings of the Dover Area School District Board of Directors that summer?


   No, we didn't attend that summer.


   And did you attend any meetings that fall?


   Yes.


   Did you attend the meeting on or about October the 18th of 2004?


   Yes, we did.


   And can you just tell us briefly what you can recall about that meeting?


   Well, there was -- at this point in time it was the change in the curriculum that was being proposed and voted on that evening. And, again, this was a heated meeting. There were many members of the community who stood to speak, science department members. Jen Miller spoke, although I didn't really know who she was at the time. I recall her speaking on behalf of her biology course. I recall Bertha Spahr again speaking. My husband again spoke at this meeting. And, again, other members of the community spoke at that meeting.


   Did you and your husband stay for the whole meeting?


   No, we didn't.


   Now, during the time that you were at the meeting, did you hear any discussion among the board members about the reasons for the proposed change to the biology curriculum?


   During the board meeting?


   Yes.


   No.


   Did you attend a meeting the following week, on or about November the 2nd, 2004?


   Yes.


   And can you remember anything from that meeting?


   Yes. I recall Noel Weinrich who had spoken at other meetings, as well, was upset about the vote that they had taken and was sort of urging them to rethink the vote.


   Do you remember anyone requesting access to --


   Oh, yes.


   -- a tape of the October 18th meeting?


   Yes. Because my husband and I had left early -- we had our infant with us and he needed to get home -- we had heard that there were comments that were said after we left about teachers should be fired if they don't listen to the school board's directive. And we wanted to hear that for ourselves, so my husband had previously requested the tapes and then at that meeting he stood again to request the tapes. In addition, Barrie Callahan had stood to request the tapes at that meeting, as well.


   And do you remember if any members of the school board spoke in response to either your husband or Barrie Callahan with respect to the subject of the tapes?


   Yes. Barrie -- I'm sorry, Alan Bonsell said very clearly that -- Dr. Nilsen had said something, as well, about the tapes, that it's not policy or something like that, that this is not past practice, this is not policy, this is not standard policy to release tapes to the public. And additionally, Alan Bonsell made the comment that they couldn't release the tapes because after speaking with their solicitor, there would possibly be legal issues, ramifications if they released the tapes.


   Now, I'd like to just ask you just a couple more questions. Mrs. Rehm, do you believe that the board's actions with respect to the change to the biology curriculum have caused any harm to you?


   Yes, absolutely.


   And can you please tell us how you have been harmed?


   Well, in numerous ways. First, as a teacher, professionally, I feel that teachers in general are harmed, myself, as well, because there's a dichotomy here in what they're saying about this statement that they have passed on intelligent design as they're not teaching it. On the other hand, they've said that it enhances state standards and critical thinking. In my mind, everything that you do in a classroom is teaching. And I don't necessarily think that's just in my mind. I believe that's true of all educators. The way I dress when I go to work tells my students something. The statements I make or the statements that I do not make in my classroom tell my students something. So I think we're charged with, you know, having an ethical decision to make when we walk into the classroom, the things that we say and the things that we do, and so I think that's very important. But you can't say when you walk into a classroom, you're not teaching. And if that's what's happening in the Dover school system and my children are in that school system, that they're routinely establishing practices that is not teaching in the classroom, then that's shameful. In addition, I have a child who is in the ninth-grade biology class, and this has spilled over into other classes. It's not just the biology class that has been affected by this. My child has heard comments from other students, school board member students in her classroom about evolution being against their religion, and do you think we came from monkeys, how can you think we came from monkeys. It used to be a weekly occurrence. It's now a daily occurrence, and my daughter comes home from school upset about these comments that are being made to her and, you know, is looking for guidance on how to respond to these questions. Also, intelligent design is not a scientific concept. It's a religious concept. And because I don't subscribe to that particular brand of religion, I feel that I and my daughter, my family, are being ridiculed, and my daughter feels the pressure. I reserve the right to teach my child about religion. And I have faith in myself and in my husband and in my pastor to do that, not the school system.


    Thank you. No further questions.



    All right. Before we start the cross-examination, I think 
this will be an appropriate time for our afternoon break. We'll take 
that break for approximately 20 minutes, no longer than that, and we 
will return with Mr. Muise's cross-examination of the witness. We'll 
be in recess. (Recess taken.) 



    Mr. Muise, you may 
cross-examine. 



    Thank you, Your Honor.



   CROSS-EXAMINATION BY MR. MUISE


   Good afternoon, Ms. Rehm. Your oldest child is 14 years old. Is that correct?


   Yes.


   And your child's name is Alix?


   Yes.


   And Alix is presently in the ninth-grade biology class at Dover High School?


   Yes, she is.


   And my understanding from your husband's testimony yesterday is that she hasn't yet reached the section in biology that deals with evolution. Is that correct?


   Yes. After looking at her syllabus, it appears that evolution comes later in the course. I wouldn't say at the end, but closer to the end of the course.


   And so she hasn't heard this one-minute statement be read in the class yet?


   She has not, no.


   Now, you testified about two -- or several meetings, but two meetings in particular I want to ask you some questions about. And those are the meetings that occurred on June 7th of 2004 and then the meeting on June 14th of 2004. Okay?


   Yes.


   I believe you described these meetings as involving some heated exchanges between some board members and the public. Is that correct?


   Yes.


   And it's my sense from your testimony that the majority of the statements that you appear to find objectionable were statements made by Mr. Buckingham?


   No. There were statements made by many of the school board members that I found objectionable. It's just that Mr. Buckingham always seemed to say very inappropriate things. But in addition, Alan Bonsell said very inappropriate things, and Noel Weinrich said very inappropriate things. It's just that I didn't give much credit to Noel Weinrich's comments because he would say things like, Darwin's at least what, 60 years old, a theory becomes a theory if you say it over and over again. Those are the kind of things he would say. But they were all very outspoken.


   Now, the controversy on the June 7th and June 14th meeting was surrounding the selection of a biology textbook. Correct?


   June 7th and June 14th?


   Yes.


   Yes.


   And the biology textbook that was in question at the time, I believe it was the version of the Miller-Levine biology book. Is that your understanding?


   It very well could be. I'm not sure what the edition in debate was.


   But the statements that you testified to and the controversy that you were describing was surrounding the purchase or selection of that particular biology book for the school district. Correct?


   Yes, it was definitely the Miller-Levine textbook. I don't know what the edition was or the copyright date or any of that information, but I do know that it was that biology textbook that was being debated very rigorously.


   And, in fact, the school district purchased the Miller-Levine biology book to be used as the primary text for the ninth-grade biology class. Correct?


   Yes.


   And that would be the textbook that your daughter Alix will be using?


   Yes, with the dragonfly on it.


   She already has the book?


   She has the book, yes.


   Have you looked through it?


   Have I looked through the book? Yes, I have looked through the book.


   Do you have any objections with the book?


   No, I don't.


   She wasn't given a copy of Pandas and People, was she?


   No, she was not.


   So the only required textbook for that class was that biology book that was creating all the controversy on June 7th and June 14th. Is that correct?


   To my knowledge, the only required book is that book, in addition to supplemental materials that the instructor has.


   Now, you made a comment in your direct testimony that intelligent design conflicts with your brand of religion.


   Yes.


   Is intelligent design another brand of religion?


   No. What I'm saying is that I believe intelligent design, as well as the ideas of creationism, in particular, the Young Earth creationists, which, I'm sorry, I don't agree with. don't agree with the age of, you know, the earth and their opinion. There are things that I do not believe. And I do not believe the same things as the board members who adopted that statement.


   And so your understanding is intelligent design is the same as Young Earth creationism?


   Well, to my understanding, intelligent design just presupposes that everything in life is too complex, that it has to be designed. But I also know that creationism was used repeatedly with the term -or, I'm sorry, not with the term "intelligent design." Intelligent design came up after the fact. But I do know that, in its original context, it was creationism that was being used. And when I think of creationists, again, I think of Young Earth creationists, and I do not subscribe to that way of thinking.


   And so, again, you're associating Young Earth creationism with intelligent design?


   There is a connection in my mind, yes.


   If you could be shown that intelligent design does not require the action of a supernatural creator and, in fact, is based on observable and empirical facts, would you change your opinion?


   I believe that if intelligent design could be proved to be scientific, then I would believe it would belong in a science classroom. Would I believe it? I don't know that scientifically I'm qualified to say, you know, that I believe many scientific concepts because I'm -- I'm not a scientist. But I suppose that if intelligent design could follow scientific methods, then -- and it were proven to be scientific by scientists, it was accepted by scientific communities, then I would have no reason not to accept that.


   I want to explore your understanding of what has actually taken place in this ninth-grade biology class that your daughter Alix is presently taking. Is it your understanding that Darwin's theory of evolution will be taught in this class pursuant to the Pennsylvania academic standards?


   I would hope so. And as far as I know, that is the case, because Dover says that it is a standards-based school, and so I assume that when they say that and they say that students have to pass certain material before they can be advanced into new material, that they would have to be abiding by the state standards.


   And I take it from your answer you have no objection to that?


   To following state standards, no, I have no objection.


   And so it's your understanding that the Pennsylvania state standards require students to learn about Darwin's theory of evolution and eventually take a standardized test of which that theory is a part of it?


   Yes, the PSSA test, yes.


   And you have no objection to that?


   To my students taking a PSSA test, well, you know, I -- being an educator, I'm not in love with PSSA tests or standardized tests. But if you're asking me if I object to my daughter taking a standardized test with that information on it, of course not. I would hope that they would provide lots of academic information on those tests.


   And is it your understanding that because Dover is a standards-driven district, that they're going to focus their class time on preparing students to achieve proficiency on those standard-based assessments?


   I'm sorry, can you repeat that?


   Yes. Is it your understanding that because Dover is a standard-based district, the class instruction is going to focus on preparing students to achieve proficiency on those standard-based tests that we were just describing?


   Not only is that my understanding, but that is what I would expect.


   And you have no objection to that?


   No, I don't.


   Is it your understanding that because Dover is a standards-driven district, that students will not be tested on the intelligent design theory?


   As I know it and as it is written, there is no test on intelligent design.


   And from your previous answer, I believe you do understand that the Dover School District purchased, for its ninth-grade biology class, the edition of the Miller and Levine biology book. Correct?


   Yes.


   And you have no objection to that book being used in the class?


   No, I do not.


   Is it your understanding that this biology book provides thorough coverage of Darwin's theory of evolution?


   Actually, did you ask me if it's my understanding or if --


   If it's your understanding. I mean, you have to testify about your knowledge, ma'am.


   Okay. What I've seen of actually Darwin in the textbook, in my opinion, is actually quite slim. It follows state standards, of course. And, actually, to me, it gives more of a historical context of Darwin than anything as far as what I have read. And I did look at that section, and I looked basically through the book. And it appears to be historical mainly in context of Darwin's time frame and what he did for science.


   Has Dr. Miller left the courtroom?


   Maybe we should ask. So if you're asking me if I feel it's enough or if it's -- I'm not sure what it is you're asking me about that. I feel, actually, that there are topics that probably could be explored in more detail, but I understand that there are limitations within any textbook that you have to hit on core concepts. I believe that core concepts are covered, but I think that, in my opinion, what I've looked at, it's historical context.


   Is it your understanding that it presents Darwin's theory of evolution in a manner that is consistent with its standing in the scientific community?


   As much as I know about the scientific community -- and, you know, you have to remember that's not my discipline. But as much as I know about what the high school science standards say, it would be in standing with that. As far as the scientific community, I really can't go there, because I know that there is a lot more about Darwin than is in that textbook. I mean, I can absolutely say that without knowing everything about Darwin or knowing everything about science.


   Do you have any reason to believe that what's in the biology book is inconsistent with what the scientific community --


   Absolutely not, no. No, I would have no reason to believe that.


   Is it your understanding that the book Of Pandas and People was placed in the library for students to review?


   Yes.


   It's your understanding that no student was required to read any portion of the Pandas book?


   Right, just as no student is required to read anything that's in the library unless they choose to.


   You have no objection to Pandas being in the library?


   No, absolutely not. I don't object to Pandas being in the library, just like I don't object to, you know, any of the other books being in the library, as long as -- as long as it's the appropriate level and -- you know, I mean, there is a censorship process that goes into putting books in the library. So, I mean, as long as it has gone through that process and it's approved to be there, I don't have a problem with it being there.


   The statement that the school district developed to be read as part of the biology class, is it your understanding that the statement that was drafted in January, 2005, or for use in January, 2005, was modified in June of 2005? Are you aware of that?


   Can you say that again?


   I'm sorry, I wasn't that precise. The original statement that was drafted by the Dover School District was modified in June of 2005. Are you aware of that?


   Well, I'm aware that that statement was modified several times. In fact, there were different drafts of that statement that I had seen. The exact modification, are you telling me that from the time that they had approved it in October, it was modified before it was read in January? Because it was again read in, I believe, like May, and there was a change from that point in time, unless I'm incorrect and that is the change that I'm thinking of.


   Were you aware that there was a change made to the statement at one point to indicate that Pandas was in the library, as well as additional resources in the library addressing intelligent design?


   Yes, I am aware that there was a change.


   Are you aware of that change?


   Yes.


   Is it your understanding that some of these additional books that were put in the library are actually critical of intelligent design?


   Actually, I am, because I recall them -- an organization actually sending the library those books, because there was controversy in those books being put in there, too. And there were many members of the community who had called to see whether those books had actually gotten there or not, into the library, because we weren't certain that those books were going to be allowed in the library, permitted in the library.


   They're in the library?


   Well, a parent -- the books that are critical to --


   Yes.


   I'm assuming that they had gotten there.


   You never checked?


   There were a couple instances where friends of mine had tried to check on the status of the books in the library but were not permitted to go in at that time. So I am only assuming that those books are there now because I am being told that they are. But as for myself walking into a library and seeing them there, I did not.


   Do you have any objection to these additional books being placed in the library?


   No, I do not.


    No 
further questions, Your
Honor.



    Any redirect?



    No, Your Honor.



    Ma'am, you may step down. That
will complete your testimony, and you may call your next witness. 



    Your Honor, plaintiffs call to the stand Plaintiff Beth 
Eveland. 



   BETH EVELAND, called as a witness, having been duly sworn or affirmed, testified as follows:



    State your name and spell 
your name for the record. 



    Sure. My name is Beth 
Eveland, B-e-t-h, E-v-e-l-a-n-d. 



   DIRECT EXAMINATION BY MR. HARVEY"


   Please state your name.


   Beth Eveland.


   And where do you live, Ms. -- is it Ms. or Mrs.?


   Mrs.


   Mrs. Eveland.


   Colonial Road, Dover, Pennsylvania.


   And how long have you lived there?


   I've lived there approximately eight years now.


   Are you married?


   Yes, I am.


   Do you have children?


   Yes, I do.


   How many children do you have?


   Two.


   And how old are they?


   I have a seven-year-old daughter and a five-year-old daughter.


   And what schools do they attend?


   They attend the Leib Elementary School in the Dover School District.


   And do you have plans for your children to continue to attend public schools in Dover?


   Yes, I do.


   And what are those plans?


   To continue keeping them, you know, going through the Dover School District.


   And do you work outside the home?


   Yes, I do.


   And please tell us what you do.


   I am a legal assistant.


   Now, did there come a time when you learned that the Dover Area School District Board of Directors was discussing or considering approval of a biology textbook?


   Yes.


   And when was that?


   It was approximately June, 2004.


   And do you remember how you learned that?


   I had read an article in the York Daily Record.


   Now, I'd like you to look at what's been marked and is in the notebook before you as P46.


   All right.



    Excuse me, Your Honor. I just want to make sure 
that this testimony, to the extent it relates to the newspaper 
article, is subject to our standing objection.



    Well, what is 46?



    It's a June 9th article from the York Daily Record.



    Well, I don't know what the question is. It may relate 
to your standing objection, but we'll note that. We'll hold that 
thought, and you can proceed with the question, because all we have 
is the exhibit that is a newspaper article. So let's proceed with 
the question. There's no need to restate your objection, unless you 
want to
put a finer point on the objection. But at this point, proceed with 
your question.



   BY MR. HARVEY


   Did you read this article on or around June the 9th of 2004?


   Yes, I did.


   And following reading this article, did you attend any meeting of the Dover Area School District?


   Yes, I did.


   And approximately when was that?


   Approximately the end of June through the present.


   What I'd like to know is if you attended a meeting after this June 9th -- excuse me, this board meeting that's reported in this article?


   Yes, I did.


   And what was the date of the next board meeting that you believe you attended?


   It would have been approximately June 15th, June 16th.


   And can you tell us whether -- when you remember that you attended this board meeting?


   When I remember that I attended this board meeting?


   Yes.


   In preparation for trial, looking back through my deposition testimony and thinking about things that had happened, it occurred to me that, you know, I was there at that June meeting.


   And what is it about that June board meeting that made you remember that you were there?


   I remember Casey Brown, one of the board members at the time, discussing, during the board meeting with the board, that she felt they were, I'm paraphrasing, treading, you know, on -- they were treading closely to violating the Pennsylvania State Board of Education regulations on religion in the classroom.


   And do you remember anything that was said by any board members at that meeting that you attended in June of 2004?


   Yes, I do.


   What do you remember?


   I remember Bill Buckingham making the statement, years ago somebody died on the Cross, can't someone take a stand for Him.


   Now, what was your reaction to what you saw and heard at the board meeting on or about -- I think you said June the 15th or 16th? I think, for the record, it's established that it's June the 14th. But tell us, what was your reaction to what you heard?


   I was shocked. I was just utterly shocked.


   And did you do anything in response to that?


   Yes, I did. I had wrote a letter to the editor.


   And was that before or after you attended that board meeting?


   I wrote a letter to the editor -- I believe it was actually written before I attended the board meeting, but it wasn't published until after that June 14th board meeting.


   And where did you send that letter to the editor, which newspaper?


   I submitted it to the three local newspapers, York Daily Record, York Sunday News, and York Dispatch.


   And did you do anything, before you sent it to those papers, with the content of the letter?


   Yes, I did. I had e-mailed a letter basically stating the same thing in my letter to the board president at the time, Alan Bonsell, a copy to Dr. Nilsen, and I mailed a copy to Mr. Buckingham.


   Now, please turn to what's been marked and is in the notebook before you as P56.


   Okay.


   Do you have it in front of you?


   Yes, I do.


   And can you tell us what it is?


   It looks to me to be a copy of a letter to the editor that I wrote.


   And I'm going to ask you to read this letter into the record.


   Okay.


    Objection, Your 
Honor. This letter is hearsay.



    Say it again. I'm sorry.



    Objection, hearsay.



    Why is it hearsay?



    She's going to be reading in the letter, the contents of 
the statement. It's an out-of-court statement. They're obviously 
offering it for the truth of the matter.



    Who wrote the letter?



    She wrote the letter.



    Overruled.



   BY MR. HARVEY


   Please.


   "As a parent in the Dover Area School District, I must convey my shock and utter dismay at William Buckingham's comments regarding the search for new biology texts for the high school. I am especially upset with Mr. Buckingham's comments as quoted in Wednesday's York Daily Record: 'This country wasn't founded on Muslim beliefs or evolution. This country was founded on Christianity, and our students should be taught as such.' This statement is in direct contradiction to the mission statement of the Dover schools. "In partnership with family and community to educate students, we emphasize sound, basic skills and nurture the diverse needs of our students as they strive to become lifelong learners and contributing members of our global society. What a slap in the face to many of the parents and taxpayers of the Dover area. How sad that a member of our own school board would be so closed-minded and not want to carry on the mission of Dover schools. "His ignorance will not only hold back children attending Dover area schools, but also reinforce other communities' views that Dover is a backwards, close-minded community. If it was simply a matter of selecting a text that gives two contradicting scientific theories equal time, that would be an entirely different matter, but it's not. Creationism is religion, plain and simple. "Mr. Buckingham's comments offend me, not because they are religious in nature, but because it is my duty to teach my children about religion as I see fit, not the Dover Area School District during a biology class."


   Now, that letter was actually published in the paper?


   Yes, it was.


   And did you see it in the paper?


   Yes, I did.


   And did you read any response to your letter in the paper?


   Yes, I did.


   And can you tell us who submitted -- whose response did you read in the paper?


   It was a published response noting Heather Geesey as the author.


   And who is Heather Geesey?


   She is a member of the Dover Area School Board.


   And her response letter was published in what newspaper?


   I believe it was either the York Dispatch or the York Daily Record.


   And please turn to what's been marked in the notebook before you as P60.


   Okay.


   Does that help you remember, looking at it, what newspaper it was published in?


   It was published in the York Daily Record.


   And what is that that's marked as P60?


   It is a letter from Heather Geesey to the editor in response to my letter.


   And did you see it at the time?


   Yes, I did.


   Please read that into the record.


    Objection, Your Honor. Our standing 
objection, as well as she has not established a foundation that 
actually Heather Geesey wrote this article. She has no personal 
knowledge.



    Let me first view the exhibit. Do you want to respond to
the objection?



    Yes, Your Honor. We submitted an exhibit list to the 
other side, and we were told there were no authentication issues with
respect to any of this, so there's no question about the 
authenticity of this, nor do I understand -- and further, it's not 
offered for the truth of the matter asserted, so there's no hearsay 
objection.



    Well, on the authentication,
let's take it in two parts. My understanding was that there was not 
an authentication issue. That does refresh my recollection on that 
point. Now, if there's not an authentication issue, we'll move on to 
the second --



    Actually, Mr. Muise may be at a disadvantage here. I did
agree with Steve that we -he has an affidavit from someone who has 
indicated they have collected newspaper articles. So with respect to 
that issue, there's no objection. I have agreed that she has 
authenticated what she did to produce this article.



    All right. Very well. So there's no question then that 
this represents a letter written by Ms. Geesey to the York Daily 
Record. Is that correct from the defense standpoint?



    That is correct, Your Honor. That's the representation 
that has been made in an affidavit, and I accept it.



    Now, counsel for the plaintiff is indicating the letter as
being produced on the issue of -- or to show notice, obviously, on 
the effect prong. Do you want speak to that?



    Your Honor, I would also note that it's an admission of 
a party opponent.


    And I think it would come in under that basis, but that 
would be the hearsay justification or the justification that would get
around a hearsay objection. But the purpose of the letter is under 
the second prong. Is that correct?



    It is for that purpose, and it's also to show that Ms. 
Geesey talked about the statements that were made in this letter at 
this time. That's one of the issues in the case.



    So it could go to truth inasmuch as it's an admission. 
Is that correct?



    Exactly.



    All right.



    Your Honor, as you know, we've got the question of 
whether or not these are admissible for effect. Our position on that 
we've articulated. I don't know if you want us to argue at greater 
length or brief, but it's hearsay to the extent it's offered for the
truth of the matter asserted as effect.



    Well, I think that you reserved that argument. We've had 
that discussion. I'm inclined -- because it's a bench trial, I'll admit
it conditionally. Whether I'll consider it in my ultimate 
determination will be a function of the
argument that I'm allowing you to reserve and make.

But for the purpose of this witness, conditionally and subject to 
additional argument from counsel, we'll admit the letter and you may 
proceed.



    Thank you, Your Honor.



   BY MR. HARVEY


   Please read the letter.


   "This letter is in regard to the comments made by Beth Eveland from York Township in the June York Sunday News. I assure you that the Dover Area School Board is not going against its mission statement. In fact, if you read the statement, it says to educate our students so that they can be contributing members of society. "I do not believe in teaching revisionist history. Our country was founded on Christian beliefs and principles. We are not looking for a book that is teaching students that this is a wrong thing or a right thing. It is just a fact. All we are trying to accomplish with this task is to choose a biology book that teaches the most prevalent theories. "The definition of 'theory' is merely a speculative or an ideal circumstance. To present only one theory or to give one option would be directly contradicting our mission statement. You can teach creationism without it being Christianity. It can be presented as a higher power. That is where another part of Dover's mission statement comes into play. That part would be in partnership with family and community. You as a parent can teach your child your family's ideology."


   And what was your reaction to that letter when you read it in the paper, Mrs. Eveland?


   That really concerned me.


   Why?


   That made me question, first of all, was she writing on behalf of just herself or on behalf of the whole school board since it was signed Dover Area School Board Director, and I sensed a religious intonation.


   Now, I'd like you to tell us, did you attend board meetings in after June?


   Yes, I did.


   And which board meetings did you attend?


   All of them.


   And do you believe that -- were you at the meeting on October the 18th of 2004?


   Yes, I was.


   And did you hear the board discuss any reason for adopting the proposed curriculum change?


   No, I didn't.


   Do you feel that you've been harmed by the board's actions?


   Yes, I do.


   And please tell us how you believe that you have been harmed by the board's actions.


   I feel it's my duty, as a parent, to introduce any kind of faith-based concept to my children, not the Dover Area School District. While my children are small, you know, this policy is district-wide, and there's nothing to prevent it from being trickled down into the elementary level. It's just something that I feel strongly that my husband and I, that's our task to bring faith to our children.



    Thank you. No further questions. 



    All right. 
Cross-examine, Mr. Muise. 



   CROSS-EXAMINATION BY MR. MUISE:


   Good afternoon, ma'am.


   Good afternoon.


   You said your oldest child is seven years old?


   Yes, she is.


   And what grade is she in?


   She's a second-grader.


   So she's seven years out from attending the ninth-grade biology class at Dover High School?


   That's correct.


   Now, you have an interest in science. Is that correct?


   Somewhat, yeah.


   I believe in your deposition you indicated in your day-to-day events you try to spark your children's interest in science?


   Yes, I do.


   And you believe it's important to make science interesting for your children?


   Yes, I do.


   You don't have any specific training in evolutionary theory. Correct?


   No, I don't.


   I want to get a sense for what your understanding is of what is going on in the ninth-grade biology class that your daughter will be attending several years from now. Is it your understanding that Darwin's theory of evolution is going to be taught pursuant to the state academic standards?


   It is my understanding, yes.


   And that students will be tested on subjects that are based on those standards, including the theory of evolution?


   Yes, that is my understanding.


   And it's your understanding that the students will not be tested on the theory of intelligent design?


   That is also my understanding, yes.


   Is it also your understanding that it is a standards-based district, so classroom instruction will focus on achieving those standard-based assessments in which they will eventually be tested on?


   Yes.


   And intelligent design is not part of those standard-based assessments?


   As far as my understanding, yes, it is currently not.


   And these board meetings that you attended in June, the controversy was surrounding the purchase of a biology text for the class. Correct?


   Yes.


   Do you know which book it was that the controversy was about?


   I believe at the time it was the Miller and Levine biology text.


   And isn't it true it was Mr. Buckingham's objections to that biology text which precipitated some of these statements that you were referring to in your direct testimony?


   That's correct.


   And what action did the board actually take with regard to the biology book?


   Well, with regard to the biology book?


   With regard to the biology book for the ninth-grade class.


   It's my understanding that they held off on the vote in June because there was a new edition that was going to come out. And they wanted to get the most current book instead of wasting money on an older book.


   And so they ended up purchasing the version?


   Yes, they did. Yes, they did.


   Have you seen that book?


   I have briefly looked at it.


   Now, my understanding is you went to these board meetings in June because of the controversy over the biology book?


   Yeah, part of it.


   You said you just skimmed this biology book that was at the center of the controversy?


   It was available on the table where the board was sitting, and I went up front and took a look at it for maybe a minute or two.


   In those two minutes that you spent actually looking at the book that was the center of this controversy, was there anything in that two-minute review that you saw that you objected to?


   No. I just basically looked through the table of contents quickly.


   Is it your understanding that that book that was eventually purchased by the Dover Area School District covers the theory of evolution consistent with its status in the scientific community?


   That's my understanding, yes.


   Now, these meetings that you attended, would you describe them as being fairly contentious?


   Fairly contentious, yes.


   Shouting matches, I believe the term you used in your --


   I think a circus-like atmosphere would be quite appropriate.


   Now, is it your recollection that the first time the Pandas book was mentioned was during the July meeting that you attended?


   I remember it being mentioned. I cannot give you a specific date. The dates run together after a while.


   How about mentioning the theory of intelligent design, do you recall when you may have heard that theory first mentioned?


   To the best of my recollection, it was first mentioned June, July sometime. At the time it seemed that creationism and intelligent design were kind of used hand-in-hand interchangeably.


   During these public comments that precipitated some of those statements that you were referring to, was it your impression that Mr. Buckingham and Mr. Noel Weinrich were taking the comments as being personally directed toward them?


   Not only them, but the vast majority of board members, yes, they were.


   So they saw them as being personal attacks against them?


   Yeah.


   Now, the first meeting you attended in July, you spoke with Joe Maldonado. Correct?


   Yes. And I believe the first -- as I testified earlier, the first meeting I actually had attended was the second meeting in June.


   I guess my question is, the first meeting that you attended in July --


   Yes, I had spoken to Joe Maldonado.


   And who is Joe Maldonado?


   It's my understanding he is a reporter with the York Dispatch.


   And during this conversation, he approached you and asked if you had read or were familiar with some comments that he had quoted in the paper, and those were Mr. Buckingham's comments. Correct?


   Yes, he had.


   And he asked you what your thoughts were about those comments?


   Yes, he did.


   And he also asked you if you would ask for Mr. Buckingham's resignation on the spot. Correct?


   That's correct.


   And you told him that you didn't think that was going to happen?


   I told him that I would just sit back and wait and see what happened.


   And your sense for why he asked you this was that you thought he was trying to elicit something sensational for his paper?


   There is that possibility of trying to elicit something sensational, but I think he was also trying to prepare for what might happen later on in the meeting since they tended to denigrate in shouting matches.


    May I approach this witness, Your 
Honor? THE COURT: You may.



   BY MR. MUISE


   Ma'am, I'm handing you what is your deposition testimony that you gave on March 28th of 2005. And I'd like you to read, if you look on Page 64, read from Line 18 through 25, and then we'll continue on the next page once you finish that.


   "The first board meeting I attended in July he approached me before the meeting started and asked if I had read the -- if I was familiar with the comments that were quoted in the paper. I told him just simply what I had read. "He asked me what I thought about it, and I said, The comments, I don't feel that is appropriate. He asked me if I asked for Mr. Buckingham's resignation on the spot. I told him I didn't think that that was going to happen."


   And the next line, Line 3, is a question which states, "When Mr. Maldonado asked you that question, do you have a sense for why?" Could you plead read your answer, which is Lines 5 through 8.


   "Yeah. Based on what was quoted in the paper, yeah, I think he was trying to elicit some sensational whatever for the paper. It was my first board meeting. I just wanted to sit back and see what would happen."


   Were you testifying truthfully during that deposition?


   Yes, I was, to the best of my knowledge.


   You've had additional discussions with Mr. Maldonado about the happenings with the board. Correct?


   Yeah.


   And you also had conversations with Ms. Heidi Bubb?


   Yes.


   And she's a reporter?


   Yes.


   For which paper?


   She's a reporter for the Dispatch. I said earlier Mr. Maldonado was for the Dispatch. I believe he is actually a reporter for the Daily Record.


   I believe you testified in your deposition that after the complaint was filed, you actually spoke with Ms. Heidi Bubb quite a bit?


   Yes, at the board meetings. Well, I don't recall whether or not I did say after suit was filed, but I'll take your word for it if it's in my deposition testimony.


   I'm sorry, ma'am, could you --


   I said, I don't recall whether or not I did say that I had spoken with her after suit was filed. I mean, if that's what it says in my deposition testimony, that's what I testified to at the time.


   Let's go to Page 68 of your deposition transcript, ma'am.


   Okay.


   On Line 16, the question was asked, "Can you recall generally when you spoke with her?" And in reference of the -- if you look above, it's referring to Ms. Heidi Bubb. Can you read what your answer was on Lines 17 through 21?


   "She would generally approach me after the meetings. Especially after the complaint was filed, I spoke with her a lot. She would ask me occasionally my thoughts, public comment, what I thought -- why I thought the board was doing what they were doing, those such things."


   Now, back in July or August, 2004, you had communications with the National Center for Science Education?


   Yes.


   I believe you joined the Listserv?


   Yes.


   And you also had a discussion with them regarding an interview with the AP?


   It was a brief e-mail exchange, but yes.


   Did you do that interview?


   No, I did not.


   Ma'am, do you understand that the statement that's going to be read to the students in the ninth-grade biology class was modified in June of 2005?


   Yes, I do.


   And do you understand that that modification indicated that the book Of Pandas and People would be in the library along with other resources regarding intelligent design?


   Yes.


   And is it your understanding that those other resources included books that are actually critical of intelligent design?


   Yes.


   Do you have any objection to that?


   No, I don't.


   Now, you testified about the harm that you've received based on these statements and the comments and the actions of the board. I'd like you to go to your deposition transcript, if you could, to Page 101.


   Okay.


   If you'd read from Line 16, which presents the question, until Line 2 of the next page.


   "Question: Is there anything else that the board has done here in connection with the curriculum change that provides a basis for your complaint? "Answer: From what I can see from attending the board meetings, I don't know, because so much of the curriculum debate takes place at non-public meetings that I am not aware of. And when board members are questioned at meetings, they really don't answer any questions. So it gives this whole illusion of secrecy to the process, which, you know, may be a big part of the problem. It may just be a big misunderstanding."


   Were you testifying truthfully when you answered that question?


   Yes, I was.


    No further questions, Your Honor.



    Redirect?



    No, Your Honor.



    All right. Then, ma'am, we thank you. You may step down. 
This is probably an appropriate time for us to end today. We will 
do so by admitting the exhibits that we need to, if we need to.

P46 is the York Daily Record article. I assume we're going to 
withhold admitting that pending further proceedings. Is that right, Mr.
Harvey?



    Yes. We'll move it in after another witness, Your Honor.



    P56 is the witness's letter to the editor. Are you moving
for the admission of P56?



    Yes, Your Honor.



    Now, you've stated an objection to that. The objection is 
noted. You don't have to restate it. And I will note the objection. 
Do you have any additional objections you want to make to that?



    Not at this time, Your Honor. That's it. 



    All 
right. It's admitted subject to the defendants' objection. P60 is the 
letter from School Board Member Geesey to the editor again. I think 
I noted that it was admitted. Over the objection already of the 
defendants, we'll reaffirm that, but you can make any other objections
you want to on the record, but I think that was thoroughly argued 
at that time.



    That's correct, Your Honor.



    All right. We will reconvene a little later tomorrow, at 
9:30 a.m., because of some matters that I must attend to, and the 
session will go longer. With everybody's indulgence, I would expect to
go to approximately 5 o'clock, no later than 5 o'clock tomorrow to make 
up for the time that we lose during the morning session. So we will
stand in recess until 9:30 a.m. on Thursday. We thank you all.



   (Whereupon, the proceedings were adjourned at 4:20 p.m.)

  





  

CERTIFICATION

I hereby certify that the proceedings and evidence are contained fully
and accurately in the notes taken by me on the within proceedings 
and that this copy is a correct transcript of the same.

Dated in Harrisburg, Pennsylvania, this 28th day of September, 2005.

Lori A. Shuey, RPR, CRR Official Court Reporter United States 
Courthouse Walnut Street, P.O. Box 983 Harrisburg, PA 17108-0983 
(717)215-1270


   
   
      
         I would say between the ages of 7 to 10 years old it, was a really big thing to go to the movie on Saturday mornings.
         And one particular movie theater we went to, they would show serials every Saturday, which were a continued story.
         So if you missed one Saturday you would miss what happened in a particular episode and you, um, wouldn't know what had taken place.
         So we would go every Saturday morning.
         And also at this theater, they gave prizes to different people.
         And one of the way they gave prizes was, they would take big group photos and everybody, and there were stairs going up to a balcony, real wide stairs.
         And the big group of people would go stand on the stairs and there would be probably 30 or 40 kids in the picture.
         And they'd take the picture and then you would go back the next Saturday after they had been developed and they would have circled 3 or 4 people in the picture and the people whose head was circled would get the prizes.
      
      
         Is that for real?
      
      
         That's for real!
         That really happened!
         And one time I can remember, I think it was Steve, my brother, um, he, and they would give treats like candy, I don't even remember what all kinds of prizes the would give.
         But for some reason, and I think this is really true, he got ice cream sandwiches!
         Like a box of ice cream sandwiches.
         And of course there's nothing to do with a box of ice cream sandwiches when you're at a 2-hour movie!
      
      
         
            
         
      
      
         They're going to melt!
         And another, um, that was in, that was in High Point, NC.
         And then we moved to Charlotte and we used to go to - and I don't think its even still there I don't know if the building is or not - but the Dilworth Theatre.
         I lived in the Dilworth area, and we would go to the Dilworth Theatre and I do remember that it cost 9 cents to get a ticket to get in.
         And we would, could go to the movie.
         We would get maybe 15 cents each to go to the movie, and I sound like I'm 95 years old-
      
      
         
            
         
      
      
         -with those kinds of prices.
         Um, but we would go to the movie and then you would go in and get your, your snack that you wanted.
         And there were several different choices.
         I don't ever remember getting popcorn at the movie until I was a teenager or in my adult life.
         But we would, uh, buy, lollipops is what they call them now, but we called them suckers and we would get often a 2-cent sucker.
      
      
         
            
         
      
      
         Are you making fun?
      
      
         No, I love this story.
      
      
         And the 2-cent suckers is what is referred to now as a Tootsie Roll Pop.
         And we called them 2-cent suckers because every other sucker cost a penny.
         Except these were 2 cents because they had the Tootsie Roll in the middle.
         And there was one other sucker that cost a nickel and we called that an all day sucker, just because you couldn't eat the whole thing for the entire movie and you would really just have that sucker all day long.
         And one other form of refreshment that we got, which really embarrassed my mother because she didn't know anything about this until she went with us to the movie one Saturday, there was a bakery next door to the movie theatre.
         And my brothers and myself were not the only people that did this; all the kids that would go to the movie knew to do this.
         We would go into the bakery and we would ask for-
      
      
         
            
         
      
      
         -a nickel worth of scraps!
         
         
      
      
         And we didn't even have to ask for it because the bakery lady knew us and she knew to have all this ready for all the kids going to the movie.
         And what it was it was broken cookies and broken pieces of whatever happened while they were baking, mistakes.
         So they would fill little bags for us and we would give them a nickel and we could take that to the movie theatre with us.
         And that's all the stories I can remember about the movies right now.
         I do know that I did used to go the movie downtown at the Carolina Theatre.
         And when I was young, it wasn't a strange thing for the kids to just go off and go to a movie.
         I mean, my mother knew where we were going and she knew when we would get back, but today you wouldn't send your seven or eight year old child to a movie theatre alone even if they were with their nine year old brother; you just wouldn't do it.
         And we could skate to the movie or ride a bicycle to the movie and we would do that.
         Which is kind of sad that you can't do that anymore and it's not just because things are, there're bad people in the world but it's too much traffic.
         You have to check everything about a movie, check it out to see what the content is and just wasn't like that when I was growing up
         .
         Also about that same time period in my life, I guess again between seven and ten years old, which seems to be what I remember most vividly, my best friend uh, was Kathy Josey, and she was a next door neighbor also, and we remained friends up until, uh, she was about 35 and she passed away with cancer.
         But we, we remained close friends.
         In fact we shared an apartment, first apartment either one of us ever had.
         And when we were, um, little girls we used to play "Career Girls"!
         
         We did!
         And we used to try to dress up and pretend we were businesswomen.
         And we would go to work and pretend we had an apartment together and then when we grew up, we sure did; we got an apartment.
      
      
         Uh-huh.
      
      
         Um, Kathy and I also used to play other kind of dress ups and it just, it seems like, I remember we both had like our mother's long skirts, or the skirts would be long on us and we would literally wear dress up clothes that belonged to our mothers.
         But we had, Kathy had one pair of pearls or beads of some sort of necklace that was her mother's and I didn't have the necklace.
         And it was really beautiful and I really, really wanted one.
         So we only had the one necklace and we, er, we decided, I don't know if it was jointly or if Kathy was just extremely nice of whatever, but she said I could wear it part of the time.
         And we would literally time the amount of time, we wore it like 30 minutes or 15 minutes or whatever.
         And the way we decided who got to wear it first, and this always kind of bothered me because I know Kathy did this intentionally, she said the youngest one got to wear it first and she was like six months younger than I am.
         So, it, that became
         a normal thing with us.
         Whenever we only had one of something she would always say, "Well, I think the youngest one gets to do it, or wear it or whatever first."
         And, that just always stuck in my mind, that in, in our adult life I brought that up to her and she sort of acted like she didn't know anything about that and I thought to myself, "she does," and then she laughed about it and she realized that she had kinda held a trump card on that one.
         Um, also we did a lot of pretending and as I said we played career girls and the dress ups.
         And my sister and I used to pretend also and Jill is about 2 years younger than I am, maybe two and a half, and we used to play Robin Hood except we didn't have a Maid Marion, we had a Saretha, I don't know where in the world that name came from.
         But we would switch playing Robin Hood, one would play Robin Hood and one would play Saretha.
         And Saretha was the counter, would be the same thing as Maid Marion, and, why, again, I don't know why we didn't use Maid Marion.
         But in my mind I can remember playing that, like all day long.
         And we would go over to my grandparents' and they had a a big white house with a big front porch and, uh, banisters on it and a lot of rocking chairs out on the front porch.
         And it was just a great place to pretend and we would climb up on the porch and on the banisters and we could make those our horses or, uh, it could be a castle; just do many things with it.
         Um, and when we were still living in High Point in our back yard we had a huge, I don't know, I guess it was an oak tree, but it was a really big tree, but it was a climbable tree.
         And it had real large, thick branches extending out to the side and they were fat enough branches where as a child of eight and nine years old we could straddle the branches.
         And that was another game that Jill and I used to play; we would pretend we were in the jungle and we would climb up on the tree and we would straddle the tree branches and pretend it was our elephant.
         And in the yard, we had an old tree that had been cut down and just the stump was remaining and my mother had planted, um, flowers all around that stump and we would use that stump as a, as a throne and the princess got to sit up on that stump on that throne and have all those flowers around her and that would be the throne and she would be the queen or the princess or whatever.
         When I was a teenager, an Audrey Hepburn movie came out called Wait Until Dark.
         And I think I was probably 16 or 17 years old; we were of driving age.
         And I had a group of girlfriends that I ran around with and there were, golly, there might've been 8 to 10 of us who were good friends.
         Everybody had their own "best" friend but then we had one big group that we used to do a lot of things together.
         Um, and we would, had that many girls but we would only go out in a couple of cars and I remember one of the girls, Betty Belle, her dad had a VW Beetle, and we'd fit like 5 girls in that VW Beetle.
      
      
         Did Betty Belle turn Catholic?
      
      
         No, huh-uh.
      
      
         She didn't?
      
      
         No.
         So we went out one night to the movie, but before we went to the movie we went to get pizza and then we went to, and I think the name of the place was The Open Kitchen, and we didn't have chain pizza places like we do now, like Pizza Hut and all that.
         This was just a really neat pizza place that all the kids would go.
         And we went to Open Kitchen and we would have eight or 10 girls and we would order one pizza and all share it and everyone would only get one piece and I think we would make the waitresses mad because we didn't have money to leave tips.
         We would also drink water.
         So it wasn't a good situation for the waitresses, but we had fun and we didn't even think about it.
         We just did what we could get away with.
         Anyway, that night we were gonna go see Wait Until Dark and I think it was on at the Manor Theatre, and I just remember when you have like 10 or so girls going somewhere to the same place it's kind of a, pretty much of a spectacle; we're all in this long line and we're giggling and laughing and cutting up and having really a great time.
         So we bought our tickets and we went into the Manor Theatre and we found a row of seats and we sat, file, all filed in.
         And I just remember seeing, and I was sitting in a middle section, I was not on an end so I had girls I knew on both sides of me.
         And I just remember that movie was, had a lot of hype about being really scary and suspenseful and it's nothing like these movies that are out today like Scream and, what is it?
         Nightmare on Elm Street whatever it is, where they're actual horror movies.
         This was, uh, a real intense, um, drama and, just very scary; kept you on the edge of your seat.
         And there was a scene in the movie I remember where every one of us, and it wasn't just our group, but so many people in the theatre, they screamed out at one time.
         And that's really all I remember about that night, it was just a lot of fun.
         And I really hope that my daughters have had some nights like that and has had good times like that, that I can remember going out with good friends.
      
   

   
   
      
         Welcome back to our show!
         OK.
         This is Maria, and I don't know your last name.
      
      
         Polk.
      
      
         Oh that's good.
         From Polkton, Maria Polk.
         OK.
         And where did you grow up?
         Were you born in this area here?
      
      
         I was born in Cottonville.
         Right outside of Norwood in Stanley County.
      
      
         Oh, OK.
         When you were little, did your mom read you books, or did somebody read you books in your house?
      
      
         My mama read to me and my sister.
      
      
         Uh-huh.
         What kind of books were your favorites?
         Do you remember any that were maybe a real favorite of yours?
      
      
         Mm, I kind of liked them all.
         Um, I didn't really have a favorite.
      
      
         No?
         Any particular types, like ones with pictures or
         .
         Can you think of a story that they told you that you liked for them to read over and over?
      
      
         Um, I think my favorite was like, "Little Red Riding Hood;" I loved that book.
      
      
         "Little Red Riding Hood"?
         So when you read to yourself did you read different stories than the ones they would read to you?
      
      
         Mmm, basically, something different.
      
      
         Did you get to go to the library when you were little?
      
      
         Uh-huh, all the time.
      
      
         Yeah.
         So, you would check books out?
      
      
         Uh-huh.
         Mostly, I liked to spend time reading encyclopedias--
      
      
         Oh, really?
      
      
         --when I was little.
      
      
         You like to read encyclopedias.
         In your family, do you remember if there was any storyteller?
      
      
         Well, my uncle was always telling stories and, uh, we had this house across the street from where I grew up that was old and he ever finished it.
         He started it and he told stories that, um, um, men being in it that house at night and stuff and for us not to go outside at night.
      
      
         Would he scare you?
      
      
         Yeah.
         So we, at a certain time, we were scared to go over there because we'd always go outside and look at the house across the street.
      
      
         Um, did he tell stories to big groups of people, or just one-on-one?
      
      
         Just to our cousins and all of us that hung around each other all the time.
      
      
         Uh-huh.
         Now, do you have kids at your house?
      
      
         No.
         Only, only on Sunday: my niece and nephew and my cousins.
      
      
         Uh-huh.
         Do you like to read to them?
         Do they bring their books over?
      
      
         I read to my niece.
         She likes the pop-out books.
      
      
         Uh-huh.
         How old is she?
      
      
         She's, ah
         six.
         She likes the pictures that pop out at you.
         She likes for me to read them to her.
      
      
         Can she read to herself yet?
      
      
         Not yet, but she tries to.
         Mostly, she just looks at the pictures.
      
      
         Is she, what grade is she in?
         Do you know?
      
      
         She's in kindergarten.
      
      
         She's in kindergarten?
         OK.
         That's pretty much all I need to know, about how you liked reading and things when you were little.
         Is there anything else you'd like to say about this, that comes to your mind?
      
      
         No, not so much.
      
   

   
   
      
         Hi my name is Sandra Reid and I am part of a family of seven children, um, and my mom and dad have passed away.
         During our young years we were very poor.
         
         We did not have very much but my mom always found a way to keep us busy or keep us entertained, and one of the ways that she kept us entertained was by telling stories, reading poems, and singing to us.
         One of the stories that I would like to share with you is the story that is pretty scary and it sticks out into my mind, I guess, mostly, mainly because it was scary.
         Even though my mom told us lot of scary stories she was always there to hold us in her arms and let us know that the story was not true and that it was we were OK.
         Out of all of my sisters and brothers I was the laziest one of all, as far as working around the house.
         All of my sisters learned to cook by the age of eight.
         I learned after I got married
         so I was a pretty lazy child when it came down to cleaning up and cooking.
         So one night my mother asked me to go inside and wash the dishes.
         Naturally, I start crying, and one of my main ways of getting out of work was always saying something hurt me, either my stomach, or that I had a headache, or something was wrong with my leg.
         Just anything to get out of doing my job.
         So after she noticed that I was going to be just a little stubborn and not follow, do what she tell told me to do, she asked me to come around in the living room with her and the rest of the family.
         So she began to tell this story.
         Once upon a time there was this little girl and her family.
         And the mother asked the little girl to please go in and wash the dishes so that she could go to bed early and not come up, wake up in the morning and see all those dishes on the table.
         And her little girl just complained, "I don't want to wash the dishes.
         I don't want to.
         My leg hurts, my head hurts.
         I don't feel good."
         The little girl disappointed her mother so badly, but her mother said, "How in the world am I ever going to get her to wash these dishes?"
         So she said, "Little girl, little girl, if you don't go in there and wash those dishes like I asked, you something really, really bad is going to happen to you."
         So the little girl just said, "OK I'll go in there and wash the dishes."
         And she was in there stomping and crying and mad and taking all her good time.
         All of a sudden the butcher knife came out of the drawer and it began to roll around in the air.
         And before you know it, the butcher knife came around and cut the little girl's head off.
         And when the little girl went to heaven she was crying down to her dad and saying "Daddy, Daddy!
         Mama cut my head off with the butcher knife."
         Now that knife, when I went to sleep it really scared me.
         But the wonderful thing about it my mom was always there close by to let me know that I was OK.
         Now after that, my mother continued to tell us many, many scary stories and tell us many, many, many poems.
         I'd like to tell you about how I got into becoming a teacher's assistant.
         All my life I always wanted to be a teacher even from the time I started to school.
         That was my dream, to teach school.
         As I told you, in the past we were a very poor family and I never got the chance to go to college because of this.
         Uh, while I was in high school a teacher of mine noticed that I had an extra bone in my foot and she said, "Well now Sandra we can use this as get toward, on your grant to go to college."
         So she said, "Go home and talk to your mother about it and see if we, you know, can follow through with applying for a grant, scholarship grant for you."
         So that night I went home and I asked my mother about it and she said, "Baby, I really want you to go to college.
         It's always been my dream that my children all go to school.
         But because there are so many children in the family there are other things you're going to have to have to go to school and I just don't have the money."
         At that time my dad was in prison at the time, so it made it really hard for my mom.
         I sat there and I cried but I tried to be as understanding as possible because I knew my mother struggled really hard to even keep food on the table for us.
         So I never got a chance to go to school.
      
      
         Did anybody?
      
      
         Yes, my brother went to school.
         He went to Livingstone and then to transferred to Johnson C. Smith, so to make it easier on my mom, to, as far as, you know, him staying at home and going to school too.
         So he graduated from, um, Johnson C. Smith, here in Charlotte.
         I had another sister who went to Gaston College where she got a business degree there.
         I, in later years, I went on to college some but I didn't complete the, uh, whole four years.
         Um, I remember once, when I was working in a mill, and I was spinning yarn, and I was saying to myself, and, I was praying actually, and I said, "God, one day I want to work in the school system.
         If I could just work, even as a teacher assistant I would be happy."
         As the years went by my prayer was answered and I got the chance to work in the cafeteria as a cashier and the principal there came up to me and said, "Have you considered being a teacher assistant?"
         I said, "I would love to."
         So they told me about some classes that I could take at Central Piedmont.
         I'd never gone to college before.
         I was really afraid.
         But he told me to go ahead and try it, so I took the entrance test, and they accepted me into at the school, and I took some courses there.
         After a while, the principal said, "I would like for you to bring me your, um, transcript so I can see what your grades are like."
         Luckily I had all A's.
         I did very well.
         And he asked me to be a teacher assistant the next following year.
         Um, my dream, my prayers were answered.
         I enjoy my job very much.
         I can't think of any job that would make me any happier.
         A few years later, um, I had the opportunity to apply for a scholarship to further my education.
         At first I didn't want to apply for it, but the principal called me during the summer months and said, "Sandra the time is running out, you need to apply."
         And he told me I would have to write this paper.
         Well I didn't like writing at the time
         but I took it upon myself to go ahead and write a paper.
         And I went to, um, one of my staff members and I asked her if she would proofread it, and she thought it was an excellent paper.
         And I went ahead and mailed it in thinking uh I won't get the scholarship.
         Who cares?
         I don't, just so I can work in the school I'll be happy.
         But one day I came in and I looked at my mail and I was accepted.
         
         I couldn't believe it.
         Out of 150 assistants who had applied for this grant only 16 got the opportunity, so I felt very proud of myself.
         So I went on and took the courses, and as I started I think I was taking economics.
         I think that was the last class I took.
         My husband became very ill with cancer and I had to make a decision as to whether I would continue my education or take care of him and I felt like I needed to take care of him because he stood by me so much while I was going to school.
      
      
         But you would have been able to be a, a teacher if you had continued?
      
      
         Yeah, and at the time, I was also working in the classroom.
         I guess you'd say as a sub because the teacher that I was working with at that time was pregnant and she had to take a leave of absence.
         And they hired a sub but the sub didn't do that much.
         I had to take over the classroom.
         So I worked maybe like four months in the classroom and that highly put a damper on my wanting
         to be a teacher from all the responsibility along with the fact that I was taking care of a very sick husband.
         After all of this was, after I, I decided not to continue I've never pursued the fact of going back to school.
         I just got to a certain age and I said, "No I can't do this anymore," so I never went back.
         But I love what I do and, uh, anytime I get a chance to teach in a classroom I go for it so.
      
      
         How many different schools did you teach at?
      
      
         I've only worked at two, two schools.
         The first school I worked at was Enderly Park and then it was closed down.
         So I was in those situations where I first, come first, transfer last, come first to transfer out.
         So I had to, I was offered a job at Ashley Park or Berryhill and I chose Berryhill.
         I didn't particularly want to come here and when I came here everybody noticed that I was really, really sad because I loved being at Enderly Park.
         But then, after awhile, I fell in love with Berryhill.
         If I'm not mistaken I think I've been at Berryhill for I think 17 years, 17, 18 years I've been here at Berryhill so and I hope I never have to leave until I retire.
         
      
      
         And why did the other school close down?
      
      
         Um, the, you know, I really don't know.
         Um, that, I really don't know why they closed that school down because it was a really nice school and everything, but they eventually tore it down because I was there I think the first year I went there was the year they built a really nice gym, and I don't think they used that gym no more than three years.
         I really don't, I don't remember why that school was ever closed but it was.
         And I enjoy what I do.
         That's it.
      
      
         All right thank you.
      
      
         Thank you.
      
   

   
   
      
         My name is Bonnie Rindner and I was born in San Antonio, TX, and the story I'm going to tell is about my mother.
         Um, a little background first.
         Her, let's see, her mother's family were wealthy people at one time.
         They owned car dealerships and extensive land.
         Um, I don't know if they were farmers or not, but I know they were land owners, um, many acres and, um, her grandmother was raised in wealth.
         Uh, then the Depression came and apparently everyone lost all their money.
         Um, she was raised in MO, and she married a man, this is my grandmother I'm talking about.
         And they were very poor by this point, and they had, I think, seven children.
         And one particular Christmas, things were very, very difficult.
         There was no money to buy any presents at all, um, for the children, and my grandfather, who was killed when my mother was 16, this was, of course, way before that, um, he must have been a very positive person because what he did with the situation was he, he told the children that there were no presents this Christmas because they had given them all to Santa to take the poor children and this made the children feel happy and proud of themselves and it gave them a good feeling that they had done something very nice for someone less fortunate than themselves.
         Um, I felt like that was a way to face that situation with such hope and with joy and with love.
         And although I never met my grandfather, I have never forgotten that story and when I hear of him I think what a wonderful, wonderful person he must have been.
      
      
         And how long have you lived in Charlotte?
      
      
         Oh, I have lived in Charlotte, um, for a year.
         Um, I lived in Charlotte for five years.
         We came here in 1986, we lived here for five years, then we moved to Raleigh for seven years and now we've been back one year.
      
      
         Well, good.
      
   

 
     		
 	
 		
 
 	
 	
 		
 
 	
 	
 		uh how do you feel about gun control
 	
 	
 		uh on the scale they gave one to ten i'd say i'm probably a four
 		i'm not totally i'm not
 		one of these people that believes that we should not be able to buy guns but i don't think we should be carrying Uzis either  you know what i mean  yeah i know i mean i don't think machine guns automatic weapons i don't believe in things like that but i think
 	
 	
 		some people do i know
 	
 	
 		that everyone should have the right to have a hand gun in their house if they so choose and but i think there should be some  restrictions when you buy one you know they should do more background search on you they should i think it should be harder to buy one
 	
 	
 		right
 		yeah there's a lot of crazies out there that can just go in and buy a gun because they don't really ask a lot of questions when you walk into those stores
 	
 	
 		yeah
 		no they don't they don't ask anything except how old you are i don't think that's kind of scary
 	
 	
 		i'm from California  my mom the last time i was like purchased a gun my  my mom was getting a rifle for my brother that he wanted like an antique one  and
 	
 	
 		uh-huh
 	
 	
 		they he had to fill out some forms but i guess California might be tougher i don't know
 	
 	
 		yeah they might be or you know how we are here in Texas it's like everybody's a hunter so  i'm not much of a hunter but
 	
 	
 		yeah
 		it's
 	
 	
 		i've never even bought a gun myself my dad's given it to me or someone's given me one so i'm probably real illegal you know carrying guns that aren't even mine
 	
 	
 		
 
 		yeah it's a it's a hard decision to make
 	
 	
 		it really is uh the only problem i have with gun control is that they the radicals wanna ban all kinds of weapons and then the only people carrying guns are gonna be be the people who are gonna kill you anyway
 	
 	
 		like the bumper sticker  it's true yeah
 	
 	
 		yeah exactly right it really is because they're gonna get them one way or another they will always have a way look at drugs they always have a way to get that so
 	
 	
 		right
 		right right
 	
 	
 		and they're illegal so i don't think it would do us any good to outlaw them all together
 	
 	
 		
 
 		no i yeah i i i i i agree that it would be like people in
 		people that are uh criminals are the ones that are gonna get them and then you have no defense against these people when they do  come into your house or something
 	
 	
 		right
 		that's true
 		i think they ought to teach people how to shoot them too how to take care of one how to act around one when they buy them
 	
 	
 		yeah i have have gun gun have have gun management 101
 	
 	
 		right yeah exactly you cannot take the gun home until you've taken this course sign up here  something like that
 	
 	
 		yeah or required required required for every college student  oh
 	
 	
 		right exactly  before graduation
 	
 	
 		God gun control  it's it's such a heated topic in the the and people get so emotional about it
 	
 	
 		yep
 		oh yeah they do they get real emotional about it all the i've worked with a lot of people that hunt and they just they they don't see any sense in it at all
 		they think it's ridiculous to have any kind of gun control but then of course they're hunters they know what they're doing they don't realize there're a bunch of crazy people out there that
 	
 	
 		some of them are crazy too  whew yeah yeah they go out there and get drunk and start shooting
 	
 	
 		don't use it for that  well yeah that's true  they shoot each other thinking they're a deer  yeah darn i thought you were a deer Bob sorry my mistake
 	
 	
 		yeah Marge i don't know what happened to your husband he just never came back
 	
 	
 		looked like antlers i don't know
 		
 
 		yep that happens a lot too
 	
 	
 		yeah  oh
 	
 	
 		but i guess that's it
 		that's my opinion on it  so what now
 	
 	
 		
 
 		i'm not sure
 	
 	
 		uh
 		uh i think we just hang up yeah okay  thanks bye
 	
 	
 		i let's see
 		yeah yeah we just say good-bye and hang up okay okay okay thanks bye-bye
 		
 		
 	
 
     		
 	
 		
 
 	
 	
 		
 
 	
 	
 		have you ever got one of those calls that's either generated by a computer or somebody going down a list and they're either
 		offering a service or
 		they're introducing some new product in the area and
 		normally when they call you're either in the shower or you in the middle of cooking something and you had to stop everything to run to the phone
 	
 	
 		yes yes
 		that is that one that you were talking about
 	
 	
 		that was the big one i'm talking about i work weird hours
 		and invariably just about the time i'm going to sleep the phone tears off the wall
 	
 	
 		uh-huh uh-huh
 	
 	
 		and you're trying to crawl out of a half unconscious sleep and answer the phone you either hear the click as soon as you say hello you hear the click of the recording coming on
 	
 	
 		
 
 		um-hum
 	
 	
 		or you hear somebody already starting reading reading off a list of stuff that they've read probably a thousand times that day already
 	
 	
 		that's true or the ones that are are generated by a computer it's just a computer voice that comes on the line those are the ones that i really really hate too
 	
 	
 		even had some of them the
 		they're voice activated and you've got to say hello twice before they'll do anything
 	
 	
 		uh-huh uh-huh yeah sometimes i i get them on my uh answering machine at home so and i hate that when i've got a whole bunch of messages and i go through them and most of them aren't from anybody at all
 	
 	
 		what i would love to see done to stop all of this
 	
 	
 		uh-huh
 	
 	
 		we've got a thing in this country you can have your phone number unlisted
 	
 	
 		um-hum
 	
 	
 		i think a law should be passed to where any of these people i think it's great that you know freedom of speech in this country and everything
 		but if they're going to offer these services or these recorded message everything they ought to be stuck working with the phone book like everybody else instead of using a computer to go through and just go down every sequence of numbers for this certain area code and call them
 	
 	
 		um-hum yeah see i have an unlisted telephone number but i still get all of those calls and then some of them are speaking in a foreign language that i don't even understand
 		so yeah i do i really feel that that's uh an invasion of my privacy
 		i agree with you on that particular subject there
 		let me see
 	
 	
 		that's about that as far as any other everyday occurrences
 		i put a stop to some of them as far as the door-to-door either religious groups or people
 	
 	
 		um-hum
 	
 	
 		peddling products if i wanted their products i would've either gone to the store to bought it or i would've called for their salesman salesman to come out
 	
 	
 		um-hum um-hum
 		yeah that's true living in an apartment complex though you know you can't um you can't really stop those people from coming around even though they put up signs out front that says no solicitations
 		uh but they still come up to the front door and uh you know walk around so usually what i do is i'll call the apartment manager and tell him hey there's people coming around you know and they're trying to sell something or or they're from a religious organization
 		and i really hate that i really really do i had somebody come to the door about two weeks ago
 		and um gosh it was about nine o'clock at night too it wasn't even what i would consider you know a family hour it's time to you know start going to bed and uh and it was somebody from um oh what was it the uh Jesus Christ of Latter Day Saints
 		and uh i've read a lot about uh that particular sect and i don't particularly care for it so i especially don't like for them to come up to my door and try and talk to me
 	
 	
 		now i agree with their right to um
 		pursue their religion of choice in that whatever manner they want to but i think they also should respect the sanctity of the American home whether it be in a house or in an apartment
 	
 	
 		um-hum
 	
 	
 		i'm on my turf if i want them there i'll call for them otherwise i don't want to know they exist
 	
 	
 		right
 		yeah yeah no i i agree with you there though i mean they want to choose that particular religion then that's fine with me too you know as long as they don't try and pull me in and drag me in and and i don't like the way that they do it either
 		and and it's their mission as they do as they go door-to-door and they go out into the public and they actually have the uh teenagers serving two years like you would say like in an army and two years in going around and doing missionary type work
 		and i don't know i just um i just don't particularly care for that at all and that that's one thing that i feel really strongly about though is uh you know people coming up to my door especially religious organizations
 		and wanting to uh you know to try and get me to join or you know become interested in their religion because i have my own
 	
 	
 		now the part about where you said the apartment complex puts up signs that says no soliciting i've even gone so far as to put that i've got a storm door on the front of the house and i've put in
 		i don't know how much clearer it can be it's a red sign with silver letters saying no soliciting i should have guessed i guess i should make another one that says religious or otherwise because i still get
 	
 	
 		yeah yeah that's true yeah no i don't uh i don't have i didn't go that far but uh yeah i probably could do the same thing uh you know i don't have a storm door but i'm sure i could rig up something
 		but you know i don't think that that would stop people i mean it's like they they see that word and it says uh go
 		instead of stop
 		oh goodness
 	
 	
 		wonder if there'd be some way we could get these people that do this get their names their addresses and their phone numbers and then reverse it and do well that would be technically illegal it'd be harassment
 	
 	
 		
 
 		oh gosh
 	
 	
 		but i consider invasion of my privacy
 	
 	
 		yeah yeah
 	
 	
 		a harassment in itself
 	
 	
 		yeah yeah yeah that's true that's true
 		hm well what else
 	
 	
 		i believe we've pretty much summed everything up
 	
 	
 		i know but i remember you you talked about something you started off and you said well let me think
 		you talked about the telephone calls people coming and soliciting selling things at the door you said something else
 		and i can't remember what it was
 		and i thought yeah that that kind of touched a nerve right there but we got uh we got to talking about the um uh people coming to you at the front door
 	
 	
 		i'm drawing the blank
 	
 	
 		
 
 		oh goodness okay is our five minutes up
 	
 	
 		uh pretty close to it well i've enjoyed talking with you
 	
 	
 		pretty close
 		well it was nice talking to you too Jim
 	
 	
 		and take it easy now good night
 	
 	
 		okay thanks bye
 	
 	
 		
 
 	
 	
 		
 
 		
 		
 	
 
     		
 	
 		all right Amy how are you doing today
 	
 	
 		fine fine
 	
 	
 		oh all righty i think we know what we're going to speak about um tell you what i'll start off how's that
 	
 	
 		yeah
 		okay you go ahead
 	
 	
 		um i personally think to set a mark with the judicial system and we're talking about criminals criminal cases that they should bring back
 	
 	
 		um-hum
 	
 	
 		
 
 		hangings on weekends
 	
 	
 		in public places
 	
 	
 		in public places there is one state that does that by the way
 	
 	
 		yeah
 		really what is that
 	
 	
 		i want to say Oklahoma i saw report something the other night about it
 	
 	
 		hm
 	
 	
 		they don't do them real often which is obviously the death penalty
 	
 	
 		yeah
 		yeah
 	
 	
 		um but i think if we quit uh building these Taj Mahals with the color TVs
 		and sixty dollars sixty thousand a year to keep an inmate in there on a on a on a life sentence we should start hanging them and get it over with and let's just screwing up the system uh
 	
 	
 		yeah well the sentences are so unbelievable i just saw on the news last night that they said the average time a sentenced murderer you know is in jail is two years before he's paroled and a rapists is like six months and a burglar is like two months
 	
 	
 		that's pathetic
 		that's pathetic it's
 	
 	
 		because they just say there's either no room in the system you know in the jails for them or
 		you know it's just that it seems like the automatic sentences if if a judge has leeway on what he's going to you know sentence someone for between you know two months and uh fifty years and you know what's his whim to decide it should be two months
 	
 	
 		this is true and and and and and the way the law reads uh if they sentence you to
 	
 	
 		you know it's crazy
 	
 	
 		life in prison then he's available for parole if it's if it's life and a day then he's not eligible for parole so what you know let's quit BSing with the system
 	
 	
 		yeah
 		well even if it's life like you say we end up spending sixty thousand dollars a year to keep some you know joker in there for life we could spend that money you know for starving children that are starving or twelve million other things would be more useful than that
 	
 	
 		exactly
 	
 	
 		so to me if somebody has life you know beyond a reasonable doubt they should that should be it you know particularly for some of these really
 	
 	
 		a life for a life
 	
 	
 		i mean there are so many just major major serial murders and it's not just like one instance or something it's just uh horrifying some of the murders that go on
 	
 	
 		the old Charles Manson case i mean the guy is really
 	
 	
 		yeah and the yeah there's just everyday you hear on the news of another one like that um
 	
 	
 		
 
 		just shouldn't be allowed to to even even live uh about the issue about sentencing by the judge
 	
 	
 		yeah
 		um-hum
 	
 	
 		the the judge presently has an opportunity to intervene
 		uh when there's uh my understanding when there's uh a verdict and it for example there's a hung jury here in Fort Worth two day in eight to four and bam bam the guy got off
 		uh he was uh he he was a veterinarian and killed two a father and a son okay
 	
 	
 		right yeah i heard about that on the news yeah
 	
 	
 		um kind of gets back to the second request we've been asked to look at is most criminal cases requiring an ananimous verdict the a situation like that i'd say no let's just go like a regular vote eight to four tells me that there were eight
 		there's a percentage certain percentage of the people there with sixty percent of the people uh seventy percent of the people said hey
 	
 	
 		right rather than have to retrial the whole whole thing and spend all the money for people to you know go back to court and all the lawyers and i mean it just winds up costing the taxpayers a fortune you know a fortune to keep doing that
 	
 	
 		the guy's guilty
 		exactly
 	
 	
 		and the victims you know the family of these people that have been murdered they just have to have it dragged on for years and years before they ever get any resolution
 	
 	
 		exactly because it's not next day they have the start the trial which is X number of months and just prolongs the situation that much more
 	
 	
 		right
 		yeah yeah
 	
 	
 		i think that that if it's if it's not a split decision uh go with the highest number and let's just get on with the program
 	
 	
 		yeah yeah
 	
 	
 		uh but as far as the sentencing by the judge i would have to vote against that since there's a jury because that's what the juries are for is to make the decision um what are your feelings
 	
 	
 		yeah yeah
 		well if i i saw on one of the talk shows this woman judge i believe from Florida and she just has just really stiff penalties and i saw that in in the hands of a judge that really was conscientious and really
 		you know took the pains to give a sentence for what was deserved it could you could have a a judge that would really make a good impact but likewise you could have the flip side
 		and have some judge that was paid off or you know had good a good old boy network or for whatever reasons you know politics just let all kinds of people through so he he would have a heck or she would have a heck of a lot of power
 		you know if used wrongly so at least the jury system does something to prevent that you know or help it with it anyway i don't know if it prevents it but  seems like the jury system does have it's advantages
 		but i also i've also heard on trials that sometimes they go through like three hundred jurors before they hand pick these jurors that they think are going to be the ones that are going to be the most lenient you know
 		and i don't know how much they're getting just a jury of their peers at that point they're really getting a select group it's not just random people
 	
 	
 		hm
 	
 	
 		it almost should be the first twelve people that they you know that have on a list are the ones that are on the jury and that's it
 	
 	
 		yeah yeah i get back to Price's comment when he uh was found guilty he said well he didn't have any blacks uh you know from his neck of the woods well give me a break you know
 	
 	
 		you know
 		
 
 		he'd have to have his whole family up there for him to feel like he's got his peers or something yeah
 	
 	
 		exactly
 		yeah yeah i mean you're you're in Dallas so everybody i can't believe they can uh like in a murder situations they look for juries who don't know anything about the system well or know anything about the the occurrence you'd have to be pretty dense
 	
 	
 		yeah
 	
 	
 		you'd be in have to be in a cave not to know what's going on or moving it to Lubbock or somewhere possibly is not the answer
 	
 	
 		yeah
 		oh they'd have to move it to Taiwan for people not to know about it practically
 	
 	
 		this is true so true well this has been an interesting conversation
 	
 	
 		yeah yeah
 		well really this is breaks up my afternoon from changing diapers and mopping floors i mean what can i say no i'm at home with two little kids preschoolers  my husband works for TI
 	
 	
 		oh so you're at the house you're not at the plant
 		oh hold it
 		oh that's good that's good i thought i heard a holler there in the background but i wasn't sure
 	
 	
 		so yeah
 		oh yeah i've got the dog and two kids waiting here i am locked up in the laundry room  okay thanks a lot bye-bye
 	
 	
 		oh goodness well i'll let you get i enjoyed it bye
 	
 	
 		
 
 		
 		
 	
 
     		
 	
 		
 
 	
 	
 		okay Ellen what kind of a car do you think you're going to buy
 	
 	
 		well as a matter of fact i was thinking about that the other day and uh
 		i really don't know the answer um
 	
 	
 		
 
 	
 	
 		i would sort of like to uh think about something in the way of uh uh sort of a sporty car but not any not you know a luxury type
 		sporty one but um
 	
 	
 		yeah
 	
 	
 		something that still has a lots of amenities and you know gadgets and things
 	
 	
 		oh you do want a lot of that stuff
 	
 	
 		
 
 		yeah well yeah i like i like some of those things they come in really handy
 	
 	
 		what kind of uh
 		things are you going to consider you know what uh you said something about the about the
 		well what do you call them you said amenities
 	
 	
 		amenities
 	
 	
 		that they have but what about um their reputation of the company or the price
 	
 	
 		um well of course i guess uh price is always the big consideration
 		but
 	
 	
 		it is for me other people don't seem to have the same problem
 	
 	
 		yeah
 		
 
 		well that's that's a big one in my book but uh um
 	
 	
 		yeah
 	
 	
 		i have preferences for uh for some um makers over others
 		um and i would sort of like to buy American
 	
 	
 		yeah
 	
 	
 		but you know i'm not so totally hung up on that that i wouldn't buy something else how about you
 	
 	
 		well um the last car we bought was American because of because of that reason but have not been entirely happy with um
 		several things about the car it doesn't seem like the quality is quite as high as i expected it to be
 	
 	
 		oh really
 	
 	
 		because several things minor things sort of but still they cost us money um that we didn't feel like we should have had to pay on a car that that was that new
 	
 	
 		um-hum
 	
 	
 		you know we bought the car new and after  um well well well under two years we had to replace the clutch
 	
 	
 		oh
 	
 	
 		and they just said well you know clutches are disposable and i said since when
 		brake pads are disposable you know we know that but i never thought a clutch was disposable
 	
 	
 		yeah
 		yeah
 		yeah i wouldn't have thought so either
 	
 	
 		yeah so that was that was kind of a shock
 	
 	
 		oh
 	
 	
 		
 
 	
 	
 		oh yeah i i guess there's a lot to to think about when you're trying to make that decision
 	
 	
 		yeah you know the less actually the less you spend on a car it seems like luxury cars they're called luxury cars even though they're much more expensive like like uh
 		um a Mercedes Benz they don't have the history of breaking down or things like that that would go wrong would definitely not be considered disposable
 	
 	
 		right
 	
 	
 		you would never think of having to replace the clutch in a Mercedes
 	
 	
 		no but then um
 	
 	
 		especially not after two years
 	
 	
 		no but on the other hand i guess too uh whenever you do have to have some major work done on one of those it costs a fortune
 	
 	
 		really oh i don't know
 	
 	
 		
 
 		yeah i've uh worked with a couple of people who have owned uh various years uh Mercedes and
 	
 	
 		um-hum
 	
 	
 		even though they do a lot of the work themselves then just buying the parts and everything is is pretty expensive but for them it's it's sort of a hobby too to own them
 	
 	
 		yeah
 		what kind of what brand of car are you thinking about buying or like what things are you looking at
 	
 	
 		well i haven't really really gotten that far with it um i've always sort of liked General Motors a little bit better than some of the others but uh
 	
 	
 		um-hum
 	
 	
 		oh i guess i really don't know
 	
 	
 		how come  i've been kind of um
 		i guess the commercials are getting to me the Toyota commercials and i know that a lot of people i've i've known that have had Toyotas have been just extremely happy with them that hardly had any problems at all
 	
 	
 		yeah
 		yeah that i think that's
 	
 	
 		i think they have a really good um quality
 	
 	
 		um-hum my uh daughter has owned two different ones and uh
 		you know we've had some work done on them but it's not too bad and the reason one of the reasons we um
 		bought the first one was because a friend of ours had a Toyota that he just really drove for years and years and years and he lived way out in the country so he put a lot of miles on it
 	
 	
 		um-hum
 	
 	
 		and you knew it had had been through a whole lot
 	
 	
 		um-hum
 	
 	
 		and yet you know it it held up pretty doggone good so
 	
 	
 		yeah
 	
 	
 		i thought they would
 	
 	
 		they seem to be really durable
 	
 	
 		yeah
 	
 	
 		so i don't know i'm i'm not ready to buy a new car yet but i don't know if if the next time i'm going to try to
 		to stay with buying something American or if i'm going to go for a little more
 		what i would consider to be a long-term investment
 	
 	
 		yeah
 	
 	
 		
 
 	
 	
 		well and i guess you know you always have to think about things like your gas mileage and stuff like that you know you
 	
 	
 		oh it's easy to get gas mileage in this car it gets excellent gas mileage
 	
 	
 		yeah
 		yeah that's one of the big throwing cards for
 		some of the foreign ones
 	
 	
 		um-hum
 	
 	
 		well
 		we talked long enough
 	
 	
 		i think so
 	
 	
 		okay well enjoyed it bye-bye
 	
 	
 		
 
 		all righty thanks bye-bye
 	
 	
 		
 
 	
 	
 		
 
 		
 		
 	
 
     		
 	
 		here goes Sharon
 	
 	
 		okay
 	
 	
 		well  what do you think about Nolan Ryan being the first baseball player to earn a million dollars
 		that's the only thing i found out tonight
 	
 	
 		oh you found that out tonight i hadn't even heard that that's great i think he deserves every penny of it
 	
 	
 		yeah
 		yeah
 	
 	
 		but there are some others out there that i don't believe deserve the money they're getting
 	
 	
 		well isn't it funny how baseball's getting less than like football players would
 	
 	
 		oh yeah
 	
 	
 		wonder because football
 	
 	
 		and they play a lot they play a lot longer season too
 	
 	
 		and a lot more games right
 	
 	
 		yep that's exactly right
 	
 	
 		uh-huh
 	
 	
 		but i think let's see the teams that were there last year were
 		see somebody from California i don't even know who won the pennant last year
 	
 	
 		beats me i mean i know Yankees have won a lot of games through the years
 	
 	
 		yeah  not lately though
 	
 	
 		we have been talking about this i tried to call earlier
 	
 	
 		uh-huh
 	
 	
 		and we had made a list of all these uh baseball teams and the cities that they were from then i started cleaning and i don't know where i even put that paper i yeah i was just cleaning and throwing
 	
 	
 		threw it away  oh gosh let's see the teams that  i think the A's were in it last year the Oakland A's and i think it was
 		i don't think it was an all California baseball
 	
 	
 		well have you ever played baseball
 	
 	
 		i play softball
 	
 	
 		well that's what i did when i was growing up
 	
 	
 		yeah
 	
 	
 		that was fun
 	
 	
 		yeah that's fun  that's a whole different sport
 	
 	
 		uh-huh
 	
 	
 		yeah
 		let's see but i think i think the Rangers need to go and i think the Pirates will go
 		and uh
 		let's see
 		Rangers have got a new guy this year i don't remember his name either
 	
 	
 		do you ever go see the Rangers
 	
 	
 		every once in a while i i like to go on the nights when there's not anybody out there not very many people out there it's a lot more fun when you're not fighting a crowd
 	
 	
 		yeah i think it's fun i like just looking at the billboards
 	
 	
 		yeah but sometimes when i if you go out there during the day you just fry under the sun
 	
 	
 		
 
 		yeah it's nice at night
 	
 	
 		yeah
 	
 	
 		that's when i've been
 	
 	
 		it is
 	
 	
 		
 
 	
 	
 		and and do you know anything about that new stadium have you seen all those pictures that they're going to put out there
 	
 	
 		well
 		no
 	
 	
 		yeah that that huge it's suppose to be a huge stadium and it's going to have little shopping centers in it and little like a lake or something running through it and uh they're going to try to make it a real community center out there
 	
 	
 		and you're going to be able to buy your what was no wait
 	
 	
 		of course
 	
 	
 		what was it about the liquor
 	
 	
 		that's that's in uh Texas stadium where the football players play
 	
 	
 		was that
 		
 
 		oh yeah see you just
 	
 	
 		and they're never going to let liquor in there
 	
 	
 		well they're trying
 	
 	
 		i know but they try every year and every year they get thrown out
 		it's so stupid because they let you take it in there but they don't they don't allow you to sell it don't allow them to sell it there
 	
 	
 		uh-huh
 	
 	
 		but uh that new stadium's going to be real nice and i heard that there's uh
 		that you can bid on that stadium last night on the news i heard they said you could you could bid on the stadium to have it named after you
 	
 	
 		kind of right
 	
 	
 		it's going to it's going to go to the highest bidder
 	
 	
 		oh
 	
 	
 		
 
 	
 	
 		well that's the way to do it
 	
 	
 		so
 		yeah so that could be your you know fifteen minutes of fame
 	
 	
 		you hear that that's my kids turning on their music let me see  Holly turn it down
 	
 	
 		oh
 	
 	
 		i think it's the Bartman the Simpsons
 	
 	
 		oh God  i stay away from them
 	
 	
 		
 
 		i wish i could
 	
 	
 		i bet you do
 	
 	
 		yeah well where are you
 	
 	
 		in Plano
 	
 	
 		okay i'm in Garland
 	
 	
 		oh you are
 	
 	
 		yeah my husband my husband teaches in Plano
 	
 	
 		oh what's he teach
 	
 	
 		C V A E
 	
 	
 		uh-huh
 		so what do you do
 	
 	
 		i teach but i teach for Dallas
 	
 	
 		oh you do
 	
 	
 		for right now i'm trying to get out
 	
 	
 		is that a tough system to be in
 	
 	
 		uh-huh
 	
 	
 		real hard
 	
 	
 		uh-huh i mean it's good because they they try new things you know but it's like
 	
 	
 		yeah i would think it
 	
 	
 		they'll try something and then they throw it out and get something else you know and you get tired of that
 	
 	
 		yeah
 		that's typical bureaucracy though that's that's i think it's going to be any where you go it's just worse in the bigger cities than it is in the smaller ones i don't know sometimes the smaller ones are just as bad
 	
 	
 		
 
 		yeah
 		well but they can't be though they don't have as much money
 	
 	
 		yeah but the politics the politics gets worse in the small towns sometimes
 	
 	
 		most the time
 		oh man but in Dallas you don't even know who's in in administration there's so many of them
 	
 	
 		you don't even know who to payoff huh
 	
 	
 		i mean somebody walks in the classroom and you don't know what they're there for you know when they're coming how long they're going to be
 	
 	
 		yeah
 		oh how funny
 	
 	
 		you know it's just them there they are and they're writing the whole time
 	
 	
 		no communication whatsoever
 	
 	
 		no i had them walk out of my class and not say their name anything and i finally got to where i go okay i'm Debbie Moore you know may i ask who you are and what you are in my classroom for
 	
 	
 		
 
 	
 	
 		you know because you know you never know where they're going  what they'll report or
 	
 	
 		yeah
 		i know
 	
 	
 		and they'll tell you they've written something down and you
 	
 	
 		and you haven't you and you never see it
 	
 	
 		hope they're telling you
 		
 
 		no huh-uh
 	
 	
 		that's got to be frustrating
 	
 	
 		oh it is
 	
 	
 		how long have you taught taught Dallas schools
 	
 	
 		uh this is my eleventh year
 	
 	
 		ooh that's about uh ten too many
 	
 	
 		no actually it's now my job's
 		good much better than a lot
 	
 	
 		yeah
 		uh-huh
 	
 	
 		because i'm Chapter One and all i do is teach reading all day long
 	
 	
 		yeah
 		oh
 	
 	
 		and it's just ten children at a time
 	
 	
 		well that's not bad
 	
 	
 		no it's good and you've got a lot of federal money too
 	
 	
 		but hasn't it changed a lot over the years
 	
 	
 		teaching  oh yes
 	
 	
 		yeah
 		or working in the system
 	
 	
 		yes when i first started teaching i remember i went up to my job and i said okay i want to see a curriculum guide you know so i'll know what i'm suppose to teach and they go
 		we don't have one of we don't even know where one is
 	
 	
 		
 
 		oh God
 	
 	
 		and  i go okay i mean you just you did what you  wanted to do
 	
 	
 		oh
 		how funny
 	
 	
 		and now they tell you what to teach and how long and
 		you know what day
 	
 	
 		yeah you don't know which is you don't know which is worse
 	
 	
 		what period
 		yeah no i know which is worse
 	
 	
 		yeah i guess so yeah being told what to do is worse
 	
 	
 		
 
 		um-hum
 	
 	
 		so how long are we suppose to talk for
 	
 	
 		well you can talk for ten minutes but you don't have to
 	
 	
 		oh you can
 	
 	
 		yeah and no if you talk to ten then they come over on and say oh you've extended your limit and please say good-bye within the next five seconds
 	
 	
 		oh i haven't ever talked that long
 	
 	
 		well you know i hadn't either till last night i was talking to this retired administrator from Cleveland Ohio we started talking about gangs you know
 	
 	
 		oh how funny
 		he lives in Cleveland
 	
 	
 		yeah
 	
 	
 		wow
 	
 	
 		and everybody else that i've talked to has been right around here
 	
 	
 		yeah
 	
 	
 		but she was real interesting
 	
 	
 		huh
 	
 	
 		and then tonight this woman called have you taken any incoming calls
 	
 	
 		the yours is my second one
 	
 	
 		okay so hers was the first one i got
 		gotten and uh
 		oh she was telling me all her problems
 	
 	
 		
 
 	
 	
 		and it went over ten minutes
 	
 	
 		did she did she did you all not talk about the topic at all
 	
 	
 		well yeah we did but the topic was boring i thought what would you serve uh if you were having a dinner party
 	
 	
 		oh
 		oh gosh
 		
 
 		what was i'm trying to remember oh the other the one i talked about the other night was good it was
 		um about movies you know who what have you seen at the movies lately and stuff like that
 	
 	
 		oh yeah i could go on and on about that
 	
 	
 		me too because we go all the time the guy i was talking to never goes he was boy it sounds like your really up on this and i said i see at least two a week  so
 	
 	
 		ooh neat
 	
 	
 		that was real good to talk about that have you seen like uh Silence Of The Lambs
 	
 	
 		no
 	
 	
 		you've got to go see that
 	
 	
 		the last one i saw was Dances Of The With The Wolves Of The Wolves
 	
 	
 		yeah we talked about that one too and he he said he didn't think it should of gotten all those awards he thought it was too long but
 	
 	
 		oh i enjoyed it i mean it was just more for my money
 	
 	
 		i
 		i did too
 		yeah i didn't think it was too long at all
 		um he said after about the first hour he started looking at his watch
 	
 	
 		huh
 	
 	
 		the other one you need to go see is Sleeping With The Enemy
 	
 	
 		uh-huh
 	
 	
 		and how old are your kids
 	
 	
 		one is eight and one is eleven
 	
 	
 		you probably don't want to take them to see Silence Of The Lambs
 		it's it's not it's not too cool for kids
 	
 	
 		they usually pick their own
 	
 	
 		i bet they do
 	
 	
 		you know they've got it all figured out
 	
 	
 		yeah they want to see all the horror movies
 	
 	
 		well and Ninja Turtles
 	
 	
 		yeah Ninja Turtles got to have those
 	
 	
 		but most of the time really we watch them on the video
 		don't you just massive rental
 	
 	
 		oh yeah you bring that's well heck that's a lot cheaper then uh taking them out to the show
 	
 	
 		going to
 		i know
 	
 	
 		especially if you get them for a couple of nights you don't have to watch them all at one night one time
 	
 	
 		that's what we do especially when it's bad weather man just
 	
 	
 		yeah
 	
 	
 		plug it in
 	
 	
 		of course you have to get there early if you want to get anything
 	
 	
 		i know
 	
 	
 		decent
 		well
 	
 	
 		it's good when you go to Tom Thumb though and they're cheap and nobody's got them yet unbelievable
 	
 	
 		that's true
 		that's true we saw um
 		Heroes Has Always Been Cowboys tonight
 	
 	
 		uh-huh
 	
 	
 		it was okay it was kind of slow and i felt like it kind of got chopped off at the end you know
 		it just it and i don't know it one of those movies it's not going to be around long it'll be a dollar movie in no time
 	
 	
 		do you read
 	
 	
 		not very much no
 	
 	
 		no
 	
 	
 		i don't have the patience to read
 	
 	
 		see i do that to make myself go to sleep at night
 	
 	
 		yeah oh my mom and dad read all the time
 	
 	
 		you saw Field Of the Dreams right a long time ago
 	
 	
 		yeah sure did
 	
 	
 		so i was reading the book and it's called Shoeless Joe
 	
 	
 		oh really
 	
 	
 		it was so wonderful and then i was um i decided well i like this author so i got a uh book of his short stories and that's been real good
 	
 	
 		who's the who's the author
 	
 	
 		don't don't ask me  The Ghost Of Shoeless Joe was the name of the book
 	
 	
 		oh
 		
 
 		Shoeless Joe was it like the movie
 	
 	
 		yes quite a quite a bit but you know in the movie the guy was black
 	
 	
 		okay
 		right
 	
 	
 		he wasn't in the book
 	
 	
 		huh
 	
 	
 		that's one difference
 		there really wasn't a lot of difference
 	
 	
 		i didn't uh see i never even heard that there was a book tied in with that movie
 	
 	
 		um-hum
 	
 	
 		that's interesting
 	
 	
 		so
 	
 	
 		that was a good movie too
 	
 	
 		well do you think we've covered baseball
 	
 	
 		i think so
 	
 	
 		okay well have a good night
 		
 		
 	
  
  
    
      December 1998
      Your contribution to Goodwill will mean more than you may know.
      To help you see how much your contribution means, I'm sharing with you
      The words of people who have lived Goodwill's mission. We want you to
      Know why your support of Goodwill is so important.
      Your gift to Goodwill is important because people with physical and
      Mental disabilities sometimes need an extra hand to know the pride that
      comes with work.
      "I was sad when I couldn't go to the snack bar to buy a soda. Now I
      can buy a soda and spend money. I like working and making money. I have a
      savings account. I can write my name on the deposit slip. If I wasn't
      working here ...I would be sad ..." -- Maureen
      Because turning welfare recipients into tax payers just makes
      sense.
      "When I first came to Goodwill I was a single parent with little or no
      self-esteem. I was on welfare and without my diploma. Coming to Goodwill
      was the first step toward my becoming totally independent. I am now
      ...totally off of welfare. I really like my job." -- Sherry
      Because people want to work.
      "I'd never finished high school. I had no experience or skills ... The
      only thing I did know for sure was here's a chance to change things for
      me and my children... I rode a bike to Goodwill in the rain and snow. I
      wanted to be there ...I had my second chance to change my life." --
      Donna
      Because teaching a man to fish will keep him fed for his entire
      life.
      "Before I got to Goodwill, I was on a mission. I just wanted a job. It
      didn't matter what the job was, I just wanted one. Now, I'm on a journey.
      I've got more than a job; I've got a career. My instructor played a role
      like no other instructor I've ever had I appreciate everything that
      Goodwill has done for me." -- Cornell
      Each year, we help thousands of people who face tremendous obstacles.
      Their one common goal: they all want to work. A robust economy helps by
      providing job opportunities, but to be honest, most of the people who
      aren't working today are quite simply the ones who face the greatest
      obstacles.
      The kinds of services we provide help people deal with obstacles like
      health care, transportation and child care -problems that are big enough
      on their own without being compounded by factors like physical and mental
      disabilities, illiteracy and lack of job skills.
      Last year, Goodwill helped 3,300 people find jobs that increased their
      self-sufficiency. Your gift to Goodwill will be used directly to support
      services that will help even more find jobs.
      Right now, there are thousands of people who do not know what it feels
      like to support themselves. You can help them to know that feeling.
      Please help Goodwill and help people find jobs. Use the enclosed card
      and give a generous gift to Goodwill today!
      Sincerely,
      James M. McClelland President
    
  

  
  
    
      Dear ,
      A few months ago you received a letter from me telling the success
      stories of people who got jobs with Goodwill's help.
      Here's another story of success from what might seem like an unlikely
      source: Goodwill's controller, Juli. She tells me that the 3,666 people
      we helped find jobs in 1998 earned approximately $49 million dollars. In
      addition to that, by helping them find jobs, Goodwill reduced the state's
      Public Support tab by an estimated $4 million. Your gift to Goodwill will
      help us do even more this year because your gift will be used to directly
      support our work.
      What kind of work does Goodwill do?
      Goodwill finds jobs for people with mental and physical disabilities.
      After Maureen's job coach taught her how to do her job in a restaurant,
      we helped Maureen step out of the shadow sometimes cast over people with
      physical and mental disabilities and find a fulfilling job smack dab in
      the middle of society. Remember what she said in my last letter? "If I
      wasn't working here...I would be sad..."
      Goodwill helps people get off of public assistance. Sherry learned
      through our Future Works class that she could rise out of the mire of the
      welfare system and support her family. At Goodwill she gained in
      self-confidence, in her vision of her future and in the job skills she
      needed to find and keep a good job. "Coming to Goodwill was the first
      step toward my becoming totally independent. I am now... totally off of
      welfare."
      Goodwill prepares people for life-long employment. Cornell found a
      number of employment options that he never dreamed existed after a
      work-site injury forced him out of his job at a foundry. He trained in
      desktop publishing and combined his enthusiastic work ethic with
      new-found skills in a burgeoning industry. "I've got more than a job;
      I've got a career."
      Goodwill provides jobs at Goodwill. After a lifetime of trials, Donna
      not only earned her GED at Goodwill, she earned a job here. "I rode a
      bike to Goodwill in the rain and snow. I wanted to be there...I had my
      second chance to change my life."
      Your gift to Goodwill will help the many people who want to tell their
      own stories of success. Your support will help them go to work.
      Please use the enclosed envelope to give a generous gift to Goodwill
      today!
      Sincerely,
      William A Carter, Chairman Goodwill Industries Foundation
      P.S. Your gift is a wise investment in the community. For every dollar
      donated to Goodwill in 1998, we helped our "graduates" earn an estimated
      $102. That money was then spent in a variety of ways, adding fuel to our
      thriving economy.
      
    
  

  
  
    
      November 15, 1996
      Dear Personal Donor:
      In the short while since Goodwill helped him find his job, Robert has
      learned to thoroughly clean a motel room in about 40 minutes. His job
      objectives call for him to do it in 30.
      He has no time to waste.
      Neither do we. With the help of friends like you, Goodwill has
      continued to adapt our services to meet the human needs of our changing
      society.
      We don't waste time as we are helping the community. And we don't
      waste money. The gift that I am asking you to make will be used to
      continue our mission of helping people prepare for, find and keep
      jobs.
      In their December, 1995 review of the nation's best charities, U.S.
      News & World Report called Goodwill one of the five "Standout Good
      Guys." The magazine stated that Goodwill (as well as the other standouts)
      is "uniquely effective, innovative or valuable."
      While I appreciate U.S. News & World Report's endorsement, the
      true value of your support is measured by the way Goodwill takes on
      problems that affect all of us.
      Every time we help someone find a solution to their employment
      barrier, the positive effects radiate throughout our community: The
      business community welcomes not only another worker, but a consumer with
      increased purchasing power. Parents act as role models of
      self-sufficiency instead of dependency. Tax dollars that would have been
      spent on public assistance are saved.
      You and I know that solutions to difficult problems don't just happen.
      At Goodwill, it is the hard work of staff and those who benefit from our
      services that produces the kind of inspiring results I see every day:
      A Goodwill staff member addresses a group of welfare recipients: "You
      can earn the money to support yourself and your family," she says. "You
      can get off welfare. I know you can... I did."
      A participant in a Goodwill program rushes back from a job interview
      to share the results with his classmates in our desktop publishing
      training program. once his tears have subsided, he confirms what his
      classmates have already figured out: he just received a job offer -- his
      first in five years.
      Addressing a meeting at a neighborhood center, a Goodwill staff member
      tells the audience how Goodwill can help them find and keep jobs. On his
      way home, he shares the story with four people at a street corner. At the
      next corner he tells five more.
      In order to develop job skills, a man with some serious disabilities
      begins working in Goodwill's industrial division. It takes a long time
      for him to gain the self-confidence to work elsewhere in the community.
      Eventually, he turns your support into a payoff for all of us. He proudly
      leaves Goodwill to support himself.
      These people and their successes are real. Just like the respect we've
      earned from U.S. News & World Report. Just like the impact Goodwill's
      work has on our community.
      Real work. Real results. A real difference in people's lives -- in all
      of our lives.
      The people who can benefit most directly from your generosity have no
      time to waste. Neither do the rest of us who feel the positive results of
      their success. Your support helps provide real solutions.
      Please use the enclosed response card and envelope to give generously
      to Goodwill today.
      Sincerely,
      
      
      Jack Dustman Board Member and Former Chairman
      
    
  

  
  
    
      December 10, 1996
      Dear Mailhouse donor reminder:
      You and I have done some important work together.
      We've helped people break free of the welfare cycle. We've found ways
      for people with disabilities to enter the workforce. We've expanded
      Goodwill's proven methods to towns and neighborhoods where they are
      needed most.
      Of course, we've played different roles. You have helped make
      Goodwill's work possible with your previous support. Goodwill has devised
      the programs that turned your investment into results.
      Who has benefited from our partnership? Everyone has. When you and I
      help somebody find a job, one more person joins the ranks of tax payers,
      fewer tax dollars are spent on public assistance and businesses gain
      another consumer.
      There are a lot of barriers that keep people from working: physical
      and mental disabilities, history of welfare dependency and lack of
      education or self-esteem. And there are a lot of people who face these
      challenges every day of their lives. So our work must continue.
      Everyone benefits from the work we do together. Many people need our
      help.
      Please continue our important partnership. Support Goodwill with a
      generous donation today.
      Sincerely,
      James M. McClelland President
    
  

  
  
    
      November 15, 1994
      Dear ,
      Think of your greatest accomplishments. Think of the joy and success
      they bring to you and your loved ones.
      Michael Sims felt that way at age 39 -- the day he earned a job.
      Michael was born with cerebral palsy. Upon entering the work force, he
      discovered few job opportunities that seemed to match his abilities.
      For several years he performed packaging and clerical work. His most
      recent job lasted only a year before cut-backs eliminated his
      position.
      For 18 long months Michael could not find a job. He resorted to public
      assistance dollars to survive. Finally, Michael called Goodwill.
      At Goodwill, Michael's counselors felt that his personable demeanor
      could be a major attribute and identified for him a possible job-match
      where his people skills could shine.
      After three interviews, Michael proved that he was the right person
      for the job. As the Clubhouse Monitor at Bent Tree Apartments, he now
      provides customer service for 50 to 60 tenants each night.
      At last, he has found success in a job that he loves. Now his goals
      are set on moving up in the company.
      Every year, thousands of people come to Goodwill. Like Michael, they
      share two common characteristics. They face some barrier to employment
      and they want to work.
      With support from people like you, they can overcome their barriers
      and earn success and the self-sufficiency that comes with it. And then
      the pay-off begins for the entire community.
      Individual successes at Goodwill mean fewer persons receiving public
      support and more paying taxes. Last year, participants in Goodwill
      programs earned --and paid taxes on -- wages of nearly $3.5 million.
      Their successes at work also saved taxpayers more than three-quarters of
      a million dollars in public assistance.
      The savings are counted in more ways than dollars and cents, however.
      The families of the new wage earners may feel the accomplishment in terms
      of a house to live in, money to purchase food -- without food stamps --
      and the beginning of a family focused on success, not hopelessness.
      Won't you help make all of these successes possible? Please send the
      largest contribution you can comfortably make. Your gift will help give
      new meaning to the word success -- for people who have seldom had reason
      to use the word.
      Sincerely,
      James M. McClelland President
      P.S. Your gift will make a difference. For every dollar of public
      support Goodwill received last year, we returned $1.59 to the community
      in the form of earned wages and reduced public assistance payments.
    
  

  
  
    
      Some of the strongest critics of our welfare system are the people who
      have become dependent on it.
      Their complaint: the system discourages working because unemployment
      provides benefits that many entry-level jobs don't include.
      That's where you --and Goodwill --come in. We help people train for
      and find jobs that make it possible for them to get off of welfare. Last
      year, Goodwill placed 511 people in jobs, more than double the number we
      placed in 1993.
      While the debate on welfare reform is gathering like a storm at sea,
      the people who need jobs are floundering. We need your support to
      continue getting people off of public assistance.
      Welfare is not the answer. And welfare reform is an uncertain solution
      with an unknown starting date. Goodwill works. Right now.
      Please give the largest gift you can to Goodwill today.
      Sincerely,
      Jack Dustman Chairman
    
  

  
  
    
      March 17, 2000
      Name Address City, ST, Zip
      Dear Name:
      When Jerry was released from prison, he knew it would take hard work
      and determination to straighten out his life. He knew he had made a bad
      mistake, but despite his commitment to rebuilding his life, he just
      didn't count on the obstacles that would be thrown up in his path.
      Reality hit when he was unable to reconcile with his wife and ended up
      on the street. He went to the Center Township Trustee for food stamps
      until he could find a job and a place to live. The Trustee referred him
      to the Blue Triangle where he consulted Goodwill's Career Academy staff
      for job search assistance.
      Jerry's Goodwill caseworker found him a job immediately. But Jerry's
      troubles didn't end there. The seasonal construction job he obtained soon
      ended, and he returned to Career Academy for help once more. Unemployed,
      homeless and with a prison record, Jerry now faced going back to prison
      for failure to pay child support.
      It took some time and hard work, but with the help of Goodwill, Jerry
      was able to work out a payment plan with the prosecutor's office, find
      housing and conduct a more thorough job search.
      With unemployment at its lowest point in years in central Indiana,
      many people still have a hard time finding meaningful employment. Of the
      more than 42,000 people Goodwill served in 1999, over 5,000 of them have
      multiple barriers to finding and keeping a job. Some, like Jerry, are
      ex-offenders. Some are blind, deaf or have other physical disabilities.
      More than 100 were homeless.
      But Goodwill offers hope even to people with numerous obstacles to
      overcome, like Jerry. With a promising new job at a plastic injection
      molding manufacturer, his legal troubles in check and a safe place to
      live, Jerry can get on with the business of building a life for himself
      and contributing to his community. For as long as he needs it, Goodwill
      will continue to help.
      Your support of Goodwill will provide job training and placement
      services to help the hardest to serve in central Indiana find meaningful
      employment. And, with your assistance, Goodwill can help employers
      develop resources to keep workers on the job.
      Please make an investment in the stability of our community by sending
      a gift to Goodwill. Your generosity will help people help themselves.
      Sincerely,
      James M. McClelland President
    
  

  
  
    
      June 21, 1999
      Name Address City, ST Zip
      Dear ,
      Do you remember the combination of elation and apprehension you felt
      when you first left home? The young adults who leave Pleasant Run have
      those same feelings. Very few have family support to get them started.
      Many need furniture, linens and other basic necessities to begin lives on
      their own.
      To help them establish themselves in the community, the Pleasant Run
      Emancipation fund was begun in 1993 by private donors who wanted to
      provide a measure of financial support for those leaving our
      programs.
      Individuals who are being emancipated are eligible to receive up to
      $500 from the Fund if they formally apply and meet four requirements: 1.
      Release by the courts 2. Successful completion of all life skills tests
      3. Positive termination of his or her Pleasant Run program 4. Possession
      of a high school diploma or GED
      Proof of meeting these, two staff reference letters and an essay
      stating why they should receive a grant and how it will be used are all
      reviewed by a Pleasant Run panel, which determines if the applicant
      merits the funds.
      Such fund are often used for college tuition, vocational training or a
      deposit on an apartment.
      Because Pleasant Run is the only "family" for so many, our
      Emancipation Fund is one way we can help a young person take the first
      steps into his or her new life as an independent and productive
      adult.
      Without private donor support, this Fund doesn't exist. Please take a
      few minutes to send a donation to help one or more of our children
      successfully cross that threshold into the future.
      Sincerely,
      Mary Roth Executive Director
    
  

  
  
    
      November 27, 1995
      Dear Friend:
      What kind of people benefit by your contribution to Pleasant Run
      Children's Homes?
      Little ones, like Baby Jessica, caught in the struggle between
      adoptive and birth parents. Older kids, like Tracy and Kerry, left
      homeless after a recent murder-suicide in Indianapolis claimed Mom and
      Dad. Young adults, like Mary T., a jobless mother of three, trying
      desperately to keep her kids out of trouble in a crime-ridden
      neighborhood. Real people!
      There are thousands more. Families are being torn apart, and too
      often, children are the victims. Kids like Tommie J., made a ward of the
      court because of repeated beatings by an alcoholic father; Alice, sent to
      a group home to get help because of severe behavior disorders; and John
      H., a recovering alcoholic, rebuilding a relationships with his family so
      they can live together again.
      Pleasant Run Children's Homes began serving children nearly 130 years
      ago. Then the task was to help children who lost parents in the Civil
      War. Today, we serve children and families with a multitude of problems:
      emotional, physical, psychological and sexual abuse. Some come from
      families where, through therapy, there is hope for reunification. For
      others, "families" are the counselors are housemates at the group homes
      where they live.
      The biggest tragedy is that the problems don't go away; they only
      grow. In 1994 Pleasant Run served 346 children and 125 families. In 1995
      we will serve over 850 children and 340 families. In 1996, these figures
      will triple. The children and families who come to Pleasant Run are given
      the opportunity to become happy, loving, and productive members of our
      society. They welcome the chance to belong, to become self- sufficient,
      to regain their self-esteem and confidence. Often it is a long, hard
      struggle, but the results are well worth it.
      For Pleasant Run to continue to serve abused and neglected children
      and their families, we need your support. The Funding sources are
      shrinking, but the needs grow explosively. Please "help good kids get
      better" by sending us a contribution today. Your gift will give children
      and families hope for improved tomorrows.
      Sincerely,
      Mary Roth
    
  

  
  
    
      June 26, 1995
      Dear Friend:
      This is not newsletter. It is a fund-raising appeal.
      But there's no reason why we shouldn't share good news at the same
      time. Federal, state and local governments are freezing or withdrawing
      much-needed funding sources for people who are truly in need. In spite of
      that, Pleasant Run Children's Homes, with the help of hundreds of
      volunteers and others who really care, continues to make a significant
      impact on the futures of families and kids in need of help.
      We all hear about today's increases in neglect, abuse and abandonment
      of those who can't fight back: children. Yet few of us hear enough about
      kids who live through these adversities and do make the grade.
      The positive side. These are special children. They come into a
      Pleasant Run program... whether it's for therapeutic help in their own
      homes (which nurtures whole families), through foster care families or in
      the familial surroundings of our residential homes.
      For some, it's a matter of weeks or months; for others, it's years.
      They leave Pleasant Run, generally, ready and able to contribute to
      society. We're proud of our children and all that they overcome.
      We are a not-for-profit, multi-service agency. We wouldn't exist if
      the need weren't there. The numbers of children who deserve our services
      are rising... as quickly as our programs can grow to serve them.
      Please help us help them. Pleasant Run Children's Homes... "where good
      kids get better."
      Sincerely,
      Mary Roth Tom Hirschauer
    
  

  
  
    
      Dear Friends of Pleasant Run:
      The holiday season is the time of year when we're all busy buying
      gifts, baking goodies, decorating our homes and making arrangements to be
      with family and friends. This is the time of year when we give thanks for
      the warmth and love that surrounds us. And this time of year is an
      occasion to remember those not as fortunate as we are.
      Pleasant Run cares for at-risk children and families. We do this
      through a wide range of programs including community- based, therapeutic
      foster care, group homes and our treatment center. Many of the children
      are victims of abuse or live in unstable homes.
      Today we are asking you to take a few minutes to consider making a
      contribution to Pleasant Run to help the 1,500 children families we care
      for. Many of the children have no homes; no memories of joy from past
      holidays. Others are from families that are struggling to provide a
      healthy, happy environment but don't have the resources to make it
      possible. Your contribution will make a difference in a child's life. It
      may help a family stay together. It can certainly make happy holiday
      memories.
      A gift to Pleasant Run means the children in our care will have
      presents to open. A gift means a family will have a holiday meal, cooking
      utensils to prepare the meal and dishes to serve it on. Your gift will go
      beyond the holiday season. It can help purchase clothing, school
      supplies, books and educational tools throughout the year.
      
      Please take a few minutes to mail a donation to Pleasant run. Let our
      families and children know that you want them to have the same kinds of
      memories of the holidays you will have.
      We wish you and your family a new year full of joy and love.
      Sincerely,
      Mary Roth Executive Director
    
  

  
  
    
      It's hard to believe that the holiday season is only two months away.
      At Pleasant Run, Inc. we are making plans and arrangements for our
      children and families.
      Every year we seek companies, organizations and individuals to sponsor
      one or more of our families. These families are participants in our
      community-based programs. These programs focus on keeping the family
      together by providing counseling and other services to the entire family.
      After our caseworkers meet with these families and their children they
      often find they lack even the basic necessities such as cooking utensils,
      beds, cleaning supplies, etc. We meet these needs immediately. But, the
      holiday season is a particularly difficult time for these families. They
      do not have the resources necessary to purchase gifts or food for a
      holiday meal.
      We are asking you to consider sponsoring one of our families for this
      holiday season. If you are interested and would like more information,
      please contact Lisa Lusk or Marcia Whited at 693-9222. We would like to
      have families matched with sponsors non later than xxxx. Thank you for
      considering this opportunity to make this a memorable holiday season for
      a family in need.
      Sincerely,
    
  

  
  
    
      June 1, 1998 BOYS & Girls Club OF INDIANAPOLIS
      Dear Friend,
      It's summertime, so it must be time for CAMP! Yes, it's that time of
      the year -- the start of the Boys & Girls clubs of Indianapolis'
      Camp. Six weeks of learning and exploring, sports, arts, and fellowship.
      A time for a youngster to enjoy the fun and benefits of residential camp
      living, dedicated staff and instruction, and a chance to make special
      friends.
      
      I know you're committed to ensuring today's children have safe,
      healthy, and positive summer experiences. That's why I want you to learn
      more about the Super Summer Safari Camp.
      At Super Summer Safari Camp, there are daily sports, nature, and arts
      activities. In addition to the fun stuff, important life-skills such as
      self-esteem, leadership, and interpersonal cooperation are being
      developed. Please read the enclosed brochure for more information on the
      wonderful Super Summer Safari Camp!
      It costs $225 to send one child to camp. Many members of the Boys
      & Girls Clubs of Indianapolis can't afford to go to camp without
      financial assistance, and that's why we need you!
      Please make camp possible for all deserving Indianapolis children and
      send in a tax deductible contribution today in the enclosed envelope.
      Consider sponsoring 1, 2, or 3 children. No matter the size of the
      donation, please know that your gift will be appreciated and make a
      difference.
      Sincerely,
      Richard Dickinson
      P.S. You can make a difference in a child's life. Sponsor a child at
      the Boys & Girls Clubs of Indianapolis' summer camp today!
      
    
  

  
  
    
      February 26, 1999
      Dear ,
      Kids today face overwhelming pressures, everything from trouble at
      home to gangs and drugs. Youngsters often find themselves feeling
      alienated and alone.
      That's where the Boys & Girls Clubs of Indianapolis come in. We
      reach out to kids -- especially those from disadvantaged neighborhoods
      where the risks are highest. We give them a chance to realize their own
      potential by giving them a place where they can develop a sense of
      competence, of usefulness, a sense of belonging and of influence.
      To accomplish this, the five area Boys & Girls Clubs of
      Indianapolis must be open and available when the kids need them, with the
      staff and programs the kids need to reach and grow into responsible and
      caring citizens.
      This costs money. Money for programs, for equipment, and for repairs
      and improvements to club facilities. Your contribution last year of
      helped us get where we are today. We are counting on you now to help us
      get where we need to be tomorrow. Would you please consider a gift of the
      same in 1999?
      Please, give generously. The kids are depending on you.
      Respectfully,
      James Campbell President of the Board Deputy Chief, Indianapolis
      Police Department
      A United Way Agency
      Please detach and return in the enclosed envelope.
      
    
  

  
  
    
      Come one, Come all to the Inaugural Jameson Grill
      The only fund raising event in the world where you can bring your
      entire family, other employees, or maybe even your neighbors.
      Saturday, September 20,1997, from 2:00 p.m. until 7:00 p.m., marks a
      special day, as Jameson Camp will hold its first ever Jameson Grill. A
      fund raiser dedicated to you and your family having fun!!
      For this event, when you purchase a corporate picnic table, you will
      be able to bring 16 people. (and if you need room for a couple of more,
      we can swing that too!)
      The Grill will feature enough activities that you and your kids will
      have a tough time deciding what to do. From basketball, kickball,
      volleyball, archery, crafts, an egg toss, and even a walk through our
      creek, you will have plenty to do to get you good and hungry.
      Hungry, you bet! We'll prepare a hog roast and hot dogs for the kids,
      with all the fixings.
      In addition, we will have soft drinks and a raffle, so that you can
      walk home with a great prize!
      The Jameson Grill has been designed to be nothing but fun for you,
      your family, employees, and maybe even your neighbors.
      Join in this wonderful event and help Jameson Camp continue to provide
      the year-round support that gives kids a chance to create dreams.
      Simply fill out the enclosed card, and we will see you at the
      Grill!
      One of our volunteers will be contacting you soon.
      Questions? Call Pat Bray at 241-2661 or e-mail, jcfundrzr@aol.com
      
    
  

  
  
    
      July 11, 1997
      Name Address City, State Zip
      Dear Mr./Mrs. Name:
      We need your help in continuing the work of Jameson Camp.
      Jameson is a not-for-profit agency established in 1928 to serve the
      youth of central Indiana who have special needs. The camp offers summer
      residential programs for children from ages 7-17, and continues contact
      with the campers and their families with special overnight and weekend
      follow-up events during the school year.
      All children who attend the camp are referred by social workers,
      doctors, teachers, counselors, and other professionals. Many of the
      children have learning disabilities, behavioral problems, or come from
      economically distressed families. The goal of our organized camping
      experience is to improve the total health of the children socially,
      emotionally, and physically.
      This year Jameson Camp is planning an Inaugural fund-raising event:
      The Jameson Grill! This event is designed to be fun for campers, their
      families, friends of the camp, neighbors, staff, and anyone interested in
      finding out more about Jameson. In short, Fun for Everyone!
      The family-friendly event, September 20, 1997, will include a hog
      roast, activities for kids and adults, prizes for activities, and a small
      raffle. Lucky attendees can go home with a great prize. This is where we
      need your help.
      Can you help support this wonderful event by furnishing any type of
      products or services that can be used as prizes for our activities or as
      a raffle prize? Your contribution will help with funding so Jameson Camp
      can continue providing the year-round camping experience that gives kids
      a chance to create dreams.
      Enclosed is a form you can complete and return to us in the
      postage-paid envelope. Or, you can fax us at 241-2760, or e-mail,
      icfundrzr@aol.com. Your quick response will help us begin organizing our
      prizes. After we receive your commitment, we will contact you about
      picking up your contribution. If you have any questions, please call me
      at 241-2661.
      We appreciate your support of our first event of this type.
      Sincerely,
      Pat Bray Director of Development
      Help Blaze The Trail -- 1997 Jameson Camp Thank you for your last
      Annual Fund Gift!
    
  

  
  
    
      July 25,1997
      Dear Name,
      What a Summer!
      And we're just getting started!
      I hope you'll consider continuing your support of Jameson's special
      campers by renewing your last gift of $ xxx. I can tell you we need your
      help now as much as ever before.
      All of our Six summer camping sessions are booked to capacity (and,
      truth be told, with maybe one our two extra returning campers squeezed
      in) and we have a waiting list of 60 children who are hoping to come if a
      spot should open. Many more camper referrals are coming from new
      organizations such as school social-workers and family counseling
      agencies. It seems summer options aren't readily available for troubled
      kids whose families have limited incomes, so we're doing all we can to
      make Jameson available.
      That "we" includes the Youth Leadership teens. These 60 or so campers
      have takenon a fund raiser with a goal of raising $16,000 for
      camperships. Two of them told me yesterday that as a group they decided
      they had to earn the right to ask others for help by accomplishing
      something real to help themselves. And that's from kids many people see
      as a problem.
      Even after the summer sessions come to a close, Jameson campers will
      take part in year-round programs designed to keep that positive contact
      with peers and role models alive and important. We've scheduled more than
      15 follow-up camper weekends beginning in September and going around till
      next summers camping season.
      Please, consider renewing your support of these great kids today.
      Sincerely,
      Julie Marsh Executive Director
      P.S. We know our follow-up weekends are going to be better attended
      than ever this fall and winter. If you can give a little more to help
      meet this increased expense we would appreciate your support.
      
    
  

  
  
    
      June 10, 1997
      Name Address City, ST Zip
      Dear Mrs. Name,
      Confidence. An understanding that, above anything else, success
      requires genuine effort, a willingness to set challenging goals. Caring
      about others.
      These are the attributes we want all children to have. You help
      Jameson campers reach for them. If these special children are to become
      the adults we all need them to be, we have to lead them in the right
      direction right now.
      Jameson points the way for children who need that extra hand and I
      hope you'll continue your support this year. You're last gift of $50.00
      helped make it possible for us to provide guidance, encouragement and fun
      to nearly 400 Indianapolis area children. And not just during the summer,
      but throughout the year.
      What has your support of our campers meant to them and what have they
      been able to accomplish because you care?
      The best indicator I can give you of the positive effect our
      year-round contact has is the growth in and deeds of the Youth Leadership
      teens. In just the past few years this program has grown from a few kids
      and a few extra activities to a team of almost 60 young adults taking on
      real projects. YL teens will make J.C. juniors happen again this year for
      7 and 8 year old campers. A five day camp, J.C. juniors introduces
      at-risk children to Jameson two years earlier than we could previously
      reach them. That means we now have the opportunity to be a stable,
      positive and important part of each child's life for an entire
      decade.
      The teens have also decided to raise money to provide camperships for
      other campers because they know what Jameson has meant to them. And their
      activities aren't isolated to Jameson. The teens have undertaken a
      volunteer project to regularly visit with sick children at a local
      hospital.
      Please consider renewing your gift today. The kids need your
      leadership now more than ever. If you can increase your last donation, we
      would appreciate that show of support for the campers and their efforts
      to overcome obstacles and create successful lives.
      Thank you again for helping point the way.
      Sincerely,
      Julie Marsh, Executive Director
      P.S. You make it possible for us to help special kids with learning
      disabilities, behavior problems and economic disadvantages to gain the
      confidence required to put genuine effort into achieving real goals. I
      hope you'll continue -- and if possible increase - your support for these
      great kids.
    
  

  
  
    
      July30,1999
      Name Address City, ST Zip
      Dear Mr. Ratcliff:
      CCI is a federation of 13 neighborhood-based multi-service centers
      whose mission is to identify and meet the human service needs of
      residents throughout Marion County in the most effective, efficient and
      comprehensive way possible. In 1998, we served a total of 31,484
      low-income individuals through job training and placement assistance,
      youth and senior programming, family counseling, emergency assistance,
      and much more.
      As you can see from the enclosed map, your Target store is located in
      the heart of four of our service areas. The centers that serve these
      areas, Mary Rigg Neighborhood Center, Hawthorne Community Center,
      Southwest Multi-Service Center, and Christamore House, have teamed up to
      run an exciting job readiness program for 14 and 15 year old area
      residents called the Summer Enrichment Program. Between June 21 and
      August 31, 45 youth will spend 20 hours a week developing life management
      and work ethic skills, learning the computer, visiting area colleges, and
      interacting with guest speakers. The end result will be kids who have a
      better understanding of and vision for their own future, be it college or
      a career.
      The Summer Enrichment Program will conclude with a celebration that
      includes family and friends. We would like to offer our youth a small
      reward for their participation by presenting them with gift certificates
      from Target. Therefore, we are asking you to donate 45, $10 gift
      certificates that can be used toward the purchase of school supplies or
      clothing, in the total amount of $450. In return, we will recognize
      Target as a sponsor during our event and in the event program.
      Target is well known for it's support of the community, and we believe
      that the Summer Enrichment Program represents your interests and concerns
      quite well. I will be happy to supply any additional information you may
      need and thank you for your consideration of our request. We look forward
      to hearing from you.
      Sincerely,
      Valery De Long Director of Development
    
  

  
  
    
      MMM F_NAME L_NAME TITLE COMPANY ADDRESS CITY,ST ZIP March 4, 1999
      Dear LTR_NAME:
      CCI has come a long way in the last five years. We've worked hard to
      structrue the organization so that we've ready to move boldly into the
      next century, and I believe that we have an exciting and successful
      future ahead of us.
      One of the areas we've decided to focus on is development. It's clear
      that if we don't increase our base of private funding, we won't have the
      kind of control we need to ensure the continued success of our centers
      and the very important services they offer. In 1998, CCI served 31,484
      individuals right in their own backyards. Where else would that many
      people turn if CCI weren't there to help?
      The community initiatives committee is working with our development
      office to put together a long-range fundraising plan that will ultimately
      bring more money into our centers. This in turn will help us to increase
      and even improve the services we offer.
      With this in mind, I am asking each one of you to make a personal
      contribution of $50, $100 or even $1,000 to show that you believe in the
      work that we do and are willing to support it with both your time and
      your finances. This way when we go out to ask for community support and
      are asked about our board giving level, we can show our in-house
      commitment through 100% board participation. I also encourage you to seek
      additional support through your company, church, or service
      organization.
      I know that our staff and committee members will be happy to go with
      you to talk to these group if you need their help. We're at an exciting
      juncture and it won't be long until we start seeing solid results from
      our efforts. Your financial support of the development process is just
      one step in making CCI a stronger, more efficient and ultimately more
      effective federation of service providers. Please, make your contribution
      today.
      Sincerely,
      J.Chris Graffeo Chair
      P.S. If you have any questions, feel free to call Valery De Long at
      CCI, 638-3360 x23.
    
  

  
  
    
      July 30, 1999
      Dear Name:
      Question What do you get in 987,165 hours with 291people in 15
      locations?
      Answer 34,700 opportunities to change a life!
      This is exactly what happened in 1997 when Community Centers of
      Indianapolis provided its comprehensive, neighborhood-based services to
      individuals and families all over Marion County. And we can do even more
      in 1999 with your financial support! Just look at the range of services
      we offer:
      70,0001 career assistance for youth Preschool for young children
      School Age Child Care for and children and youth Access services such as
      emergency and holiday assistance for all ages Adult Day Care for seniors
      Senior Case Management Aids Education for youth and adults Senior Social
      Involvement Computer Training for youth, adults and seniors Senior
      Nutrition meal program Day Care for young children Social Development and
      Recreation for children, youth and adults. HIPPY (Home Instructional
      Program for Preschool Youngsters) for families. Stopover crises
      counseling for youth. In Home Services for adults and seniors.
      Transportation for youth and seniors
      
      CCI is a federation of 13 neighborhood-based multi-service centers
      (plus one affiliate) whose mission is to identify and meet the human
      service needs of the greater Indianapolis community in the most
      effective, efficient and comprehensive way possible. Better yet, most of
      these services occur in cooperation with private and public agencies from
      all over the city - CICOA The Access Network, Goodwill Industries,
      Indianapolis Housing Agency, City of Indianapolis, Indianapolis Private
      Industry Council, Family and Social Services administration, OTC, Indy
      Parks, and numerous community development corporations, neighborhood
      organizations, and churches, to name just a few.
      More than 34,000 people benefited from our services in 1997, and the
      final count for 1998 could be even higher. We're asking for a
      contribution in the amount of because you can't got a better bang for
      your buck than to support an organization that impacts so many lives in
      so many ways. Your gift will enable CCI to provide these and other
      necessary services at a neighborhood level, face-to-face, where it
      counts.
      Please, make a tax deductible gift to Community Centers of
      Indianapolis in 1999, and know that COMPANY is playing an important part
      in meeting the needs of its community. If you have any questions, please
      feel free to give us a call at 638-3360. We thank you for your
      consideration, and look forward to hearing from you.
      Sincerely,
      Earline S. Moore President
      Valery De Long Director of Development
      
    
  

  
  
    
      August 4, 1999
      Name Address City, ST Zip
      The goal of MCCOY, Inc. has been to make a difference. In 1998, MCCOY,
      Inc. led two efforts that, we believe, will help our community continue
      to take the steps necessary to help all young people grow up and develop
      well.
      Participants in the Youth Outcomes Educational Initiative identified
      three goals for all our youth to obtain: economic self-sufficiency,
      healthy family, social relationships, and involvement in the community. A
      short time later, the Community Youth Mapping Project sent 55 young
      people out into the community to identify the resources they need to grow
      up well: caring adults, safe places to go, and positive things to do.
      One group of adults and one group of youth, through two very different
      processes, have arrived at the same conclusion; our community still has
      much to do if we are to help ALL of your youth successfully develop into
      the responsible, productive adults who will our community in the
      future.
      As a provider of youth services, MCCOY, Inc. is here to support your
      valuable efforts to develop young people. Recently, through a lot of hard
      work and alliances with organizations like yours, some steps have been
      taken in our community that will help young people continue to be
      involved in positive activities. One, IndyGo in April adopted a
      much-needed policy that all young people under the age of 19 may ride on
      their buses at half the normal fare all year long. Two, funding was made
      available this summer for youth organizations and churches to conduct
      positive youth programming on Saturday evenings. Through the youth
      mapping process, it was confirmed that the positive opportunities for
      youth on weekend evenings were lacking. That need is being met.
      As it has been an exciting year for all of us, MCCOY, Inc. cannot do
      its part without the support of organizations like yours. Annually, we
      ask several of our youth serving organizations to join us in our effort
      to help young people grow up well in Indianapolis. Enclosed is a donation
      card that will enable you to make Indianapolis a great place for ALL of
      us to live. If you have any questions or concerns at any time, please do
      not hesitate to call me at 921-1288.
      Sincerely,
      John F. Brandon, President MCCOY, Inc.
    
  

  
  
    
      January 5, 1997
      Name Address City, ST Zip
      Dear Bill:
      This is the time of year when our thoughts turn to ways to do things
      differently, things that will make our lives better and improve the
      quality of our life. As you begin that process this year, I would like to
      ask you to consider helping young people in Marion County toward more
      positive youth development by becoming a supporter of the Marion County
      Commission on Youth, Inc.
      MCCOY Inc., originally founded as a government agency but re-organized
      in 1993 as an independent not-for-profit, is a county-wide youth services
      coordinating, planning, and convening agency. Its purpose is to encourage
      collaboration and cooperation between the various agencies, programs, and
      systems that serve our community's youth. In addition to that
      behind-the-scenes role, MCCOY has taken an out-front role in developing a
      Summer Bus Pass, neighborhood youth councils, and the We Value Youth
      information line. It is our goal that every young person in Marion County
      have access to the programs and services that can best assist them in
      their growth toward a positive adulthood.
      I am hopeful that you as an individual and Meridian Insurance as a
      corporation might consider becoming sustaining supporters of MCCOY. I
      have enclosed a packet of information about MCCOY and its work as well as
      an application with various options for supporting the youth of our
      community.
      I obviously can't tell the whole story of MCCOY in a single letter but
      I hope this provides an overview of the scope of our work. I will call
      you in a few weeks to discuss your level of interest. Please consider
      joining together with your fellow citizens in support of the work of the
      Marion County Commission on Youth.
      Sincerely,
      John Brandon Executive Director
    
  

  
  
    
      October 7, 1996
      Name Address City, ST Zip
      Dear Name:
      In the summer of 1993, the Marion County Commission on Youth began
      what can best be described as a "new era" in its history. MCCOY was
      reorganized as an independent, not-for-profit agency, separate from local
      government. It retained, however, the same mission with which it had been
      charged from its inception: to serve as a catalyst for effective,
      coordinated, and collaborative service delivery to youth in our
      community.
      For the past three years, MCCOY has been actively engaged in
      accomplishing this declared mission in cooperation with many others:
      youth service providers, youth, funding bodies, and interested citizens
      to name a few.
      We have met with a number of successes along the way, most notably the
      Summer Fun Line, the Metro Summer Bus Pass, and the development of ten
      neighborhood youth councils. A Providers Council and a Youth Coalition
      are building relationships that will hopefully bear great fruit in the
      years to come. The formation of The Community Academy, a pilot project
      directed at expelled students from local school systems, has come about
      as a result of MCCOY's efforts to mobilize community agencies in response
      to a pressing issue.
      McCoy is actively represented and working with numerous community
      collaborations where we regularly raise our voice to speak out for the
      inclusion of young people in both decision-making and program planning
      processes. One concrete example is a joint project undertaken in the
      United Northwest Area in partnership with The Junior League of
      Indianapolis and Community Partnerships with Youth from Fort Wayne,
      Indiana. As a team, these three organizations are working with
      neighborhood youth and adults to build a "Caring Neighborhood with Youth"
      , mobilizing the assets of young people and adults as partners to build a
      better neighborhood for all.
      Since its re-organization, MCCOY has established its unique niche
      within the community by refraining from direct service programming and
      focusing on what it does best: helping to identify youth needs, convening
      groups of individuals and organizations which can address those needs,
      and moving toward collaborative solutions. McCoy has only one interest:
      the well being of Marion County's young people.
      McCoy invites the support of The __ Company Foundation in the amount
      of $10,000.00 to support such activities as:
      ---- the co-ordination of youth leadership training and youth
      empowerment efforts at the neighborhood level by means of
      neighborhood-based youth councils; ---- the promotion of youth employment
      opportunities; ---- the facilitation of ongoing discussions regarding
      effective and efficient youth service delivery;
      ---- the provision of technical assistance and guidance to
      neighborhoods which seek positive youth-adult relationships;
      ---- the development of community-wide supports for the positive
      growth of all Marion County young people.
      In the last several years, the business and corporate community has
      recognized that the positive development of youth is directly related to
      the development of a competent workforce. Youth who are supported and
      encouraged by both a family and a society that values
      
      Them have a much greater likelihood of becoming productive and
      contributing members of adult society. While we have made significant
      inroads, there remains much to be done and it is clear that we cannot do
      it alone. We seek the financial support of the Foundation to help us be
      successful in creating the atmosphere in our community where young people
      can grow and develop well. Your contribution will enable us to both
      continue and expand the good work we have begun in making Indianapolis a
      city famous for its commitment to youth and families.
      In our fund raising efforts to date, we have received the support of
      local government, foundations, and corporations as well as the personal
      financial commitments of individual MCCOY Board members. We believe there
      is no more appropriate time to have a coordinated and collaborative
      effort to financially support the services MCCOY offers to the community
      as a whole.
      Thanking you in advance for your support, we remain,
      Sincerely,
      John T. Neighbours Philip B. Roby President Treasurer
      John F. Brandon Executive Director
    
  

  
  
    
      July 28, 1999
      Dear
      Join us for the "Sale of the Century" at JCC Auction '99, on Saturday,
      November 13, 1999. The 9th annual JCC Auction will benefit the numerous
      scholarship programs of the Jewish Community Center of Indianapolis, a
      United Way agency. Because you are an organization that cares, you are
      invited to become an integral part of this fabulous event by becoming a
      corporate sponsor for JCC Auction '99.
      The JCC would be very pleased to welcome your organization as a
      corporate sponsor. We are seeking to build partnerships between
      businesses and our not-for-profit agency. As a sponsor, you and your
      guests will have a special evening, knowing that your tax deductible
      contribution will help support preschool, childcare, senior and
      resettlement services, as well as quality cultural events in our
      community.
      Enclosed is a corporate sponsorship package that includes a sample
      auction book from last year's event, JCC market statistics and an
      overview of the many programs that will be preserved and strengthened
      through your generous support.
      One of us will call you to discuss how your company can become an
      important highly visible partner with the JCC in support of our
      scholarship programs. If you have any questions, please feel free to call
      Myrna Weinberger at 251-9467, ext. 256. Thank you in advance for your
      consideration.
      Sincerely, Judy Laikin, Chair Auction '99 Sponsor Committee
      
    
  

  
  
    
      October 27, 1998
      Dear Name:
      Join us for the "Sale of the Century" at JCC Auction '99, on Saturday,
      November 13, 1999. The 9th annual JCC Auction will benefit the numerous
      scholarship programs of the Jewish Community Center of Indianapolis, a
      United Way agency. Because you are an organization that cares, you are
      invited once again to be an integral part of this fabulous event as a
      corporate sponsor for JCC Auction '99.
      We are so grateful for your generous contribution to last year's
      auction. Your continued participation is very important to the JCC, as we
      work to build partnerships between businesses and our not-for-profit
      agency. As a sponsor, you and your guests will have a special evening,
      knowing that your tax deductible contribution will help support
      preschool, childcare, senior and resettlement services, as well as
      quality cultural events in our community.
      Enclosed is a corporate sponsorship package that includes a sample of
      your ad from last year's auction book, current JCC market statistics and
      an overview of the many JCC programs that will be preserved and
      strengthened through your generous support.
      One of us will call you to discuss how your company can continue to be
      an important, highly visible partner with the JCC in support of our
      scholarship programs. If you have any questions, please feel free to call
      Myrna Weinberger at 251-9467, ext. 256. Thank you in advance for your
      consideration.
      Sincerely,
      Judy Laikin, Chair Auction '99 Sponsor Committee
    
  

  
  
    
      
      Name Address City, State, Zip
      Dear Name,
      It's tough growing up today. We know that children do better when they
      have a network of caring adults to nurture and motivate them. When young
      people don't have that support, they need other resources for
      encouragement to guide them along the way. Big Sisters helps bridge that
      gap by providing children with the resources they need -- Big Sisters
      volunteers.
      Big Sisters are mentors and friends who empower girls to more fully
      reach their potential, experience life's opportunities and perhaps begin
      to dream. The relationships that are formed provide strong foundations
      from which healthy values and strong self-confidence can grow, helping
      youth become strong, independent adults of tomorrow.
      This year we will serve over 1,000 girls through our mentoring
      programs. This is an impressive number; but for each girl served, more
      are left unserved. Over 150 girls are currently waiting for a Big
      Sister.
      You can make an impact by supporting Big Sisters Annual Campaign and
      our $200,000 goal. If you are a regular contributor to the Annual
      Campaign, I encourage you to consider increasing your gift by 10%. If you
      have not supported Big Sisters in the past, please join me in doing so by
      completing and returning the enclosed pledge form.
      Early adolescence is the most vulnerable age for youth. But caring
      adults like you can reach out and help. It's the perfect time to make a
      world of difference.
      Sincerely,
      
      
    
  

  
  
    
      August 6, 1998
      Dear Friend:
      Adolescence. It is a pivotal time in the life of a young girl-when
      small changes in her behavior, or the choices she makes, can affect her
      future. It's hard enough for her to make good decisions when she's
      surrounded by support. It's even harder when she isn't.
      Big Sisters helps fill that void by matching caring, responsible adult
      volunteers with at-risk girls, ages 8-14. A Big Sister is a mentor, a
      friend and a role model, helping a young girl to develop the
      self-confidence and life skills necessary to become a responsible,
      productive and successful adult. Your $1,000 contribution can put a
      mentor in a child's life-and hope in a child's future.
      The results of an 18-month study completed by Public/Private Ventures
      showed that children participating in one-to-one Big Sister and Big
      Brother matches for just one year, reduced first time drug use by 46%;
      lowered school absenteeism by 52%; cut aggressive behavior by 33%;
      enhanced school performance; and improved relations with family and
      friends.
      This is positive proof that Big Sisters one-to-one mentoring program
      helps change lives. Today, we are offering you the opportunity to help
      change a life. By contributing $1,000 you can support one match for one
      year. This money maintains the infrastructure that fosters and supports
      the development of effective relationships. This includes a volunteer
      screening process, orientation, training and ongoing supervision and
      support by a professional staff.
      As a Matchmaker you will receive a description of "your match" and be
      identified as a Matchmaker on a plaque in the Big Sisters office, in the
      agency newsletter and annual report.
      Today Big Sisters serves over 1,000 girls in central Indiana. But for
      each girl served, more are left unserved. Over 235 girls are currently
      waiting for a Big Sister. Imagine the difference the community could make
      if each congregation pledged its support of one Big Sisters match!
      I encourage you to Join me in presenting this matchmaker challenge to
      your congregation.
      Sincerely,
      Dr. Linda McCoy Pastor, THE GARDEN A Blossom of St. Luke's United
      Methodist Church
    
  

  
  
    
      August 10, 1999
      Mr. Caring Philanthropy 01234 Giving Way Contribution, USA 56789
      Dear Mr. Philanthropy,
      "The urgency you feel to make changes is just the extent that change
      will be made. Do not sit this one out. Do not play it safe. Understand
      the world and change it where it needs to be changed... Make our society
      better. Make a world worthy of the children that your generation will
      bear." -- Carl Sagan
      You can help make positive changes in the lives of at-risk youth in
      central Indiana. We often hear about economic poverty, but what some of
      these young people are growing up with is emotional poverty-they have
      often given up on hope and the possibility of a successful future. With
      your help, we can change that.
      Many Little Sisters are preparing to go back to school this fall full
      of hope and with a positive outlook. Thanks to our Big Sisters
      volunteers, these young people are self-confident, believe in themselves
      and are beginning to realize their full potential. A recent study by
      Public/Private Ventures (PPV) showed that girls who had a Big Sister for
      just one year:
      reduced first-time drug use by 46% lowered school absenteeism by 52%
      cut violent behavior by 33% enhanced school performance showed improved
      peer and family relationships
      Former Little Sister Amy, now 18-years old, is a testament to the Big
      Sisters program.
      "I was matched with my Big Sister in June of 1992. Since then, she and
      I have grown very close and I have been able to experience lots of new
      things. We go to movies, dinner, concerts, and other stuff like that, but
      I have also been able to participate in charity events and fundraiser
      type things.
      Not only did I have a lot of fun with my Big Sister, but I learned a
      lot from her too. I have become more open-minded, more responsible, and,
      most importantly, I have gained a lot more self-confidence. I am very
      thankful to the Big Sisters program for allowing me this very special
      opportunity.
      In 1998, Big Sisters served 972 young people through its many
      programs. But the need is still great. Over 170 young people are still
      waiting for a mentor.
      You are an important part in making sure these young people are
      matched with caring adult mentors. Will you make a financial gift to Big
      Sisters in 1999 that will ensure that more young people receive the
      guidance they need, that more young people stay in school, stay off drugs
      and make good choices?
      Your contribution will be used to recruit and retain quality
      volunteers. It will also be used to help maintain the infrastructure that
      fosters and supports the development of effective relationships,
      including volunteer orientation and training and ongoing supervision and
      support by a professional staff. This year your gift can go farther!
      Gifts of $100 or more will be matched thanks to a special 25th
      Anniversary $100,000 Challenge Grant and will be placed in the Growth For
      Girls Fund. This fund will support the goal of having 550 mentoring
      relationships by the end of 1999 and 1,200 by the end of 2004.
      If you would like to find out more about the Big Sisters program,
      please call us, (317) 634-6102 and ask for Ellen Robinson. Thank you very
      much for your time, attention and consideration.
      Sincerely,
      Andrew T. Burns Patron Relations Chairperson
      P.S. When you give to Big Sisters, you can get 50% back! For a minimum
      contribution of $250, you become eligible for a 50% Indiana state tax
      credit through the Indiana Department of Commerce Neighborhood Assistance
      Program (NAP). A limited number of credits are available. To receive an
      application form, check the NAP box on the enclosed pledge card or call
      us, (317) 634-6102, ext. 20.
    
  

  
  
    
      March 29, 1999
      Name Address City, ST Zip
      Dear Name:
      The 1999 Invest in Youth Campaign is in full swing. As a former board
      member, the success of the YMCA is still important to me. We must be able
      to reach all youth and families interested in values-based programs. The
      Invest in Youth campaign helps insure this.
      New initiatives in the inner-city are taking hold. The Urban Mission
      Branch is reaching out to middle school youth with programs based on
      caring, honesty, respect and responsibility for themselves and others.
      For some, these are very different messages from the ones heard in the
      street. They are learning to make positive choices concerning alcohol,
      tobacco and other drugs and to support each other when those choices are
      challenged.
      You have shared in the vision and the leadership of the YMCA of
      Greater Indianapolis. I now invite you to continue to support the mission
      and the message that is so important to building strong kids, strong
      families and strong communities. Please consider joining the Chairman's
      Roundtable with a gift of $1,000. I have enclosed a pledge card for your
      convenience. We would like to announce the success of this year's
      campaign at the Annual Meeting on April 27, so please return you pledge
      or gift within the next 30 days.
      Thank you.
      Sincerely,
      Richard H. Gilbert, Jr. Past Board Member YMCA of Greater
      Indianapolis
      
    
  

	
		
			Iraq clears visit by Ohio official
			By Scott Montgomery Washington
			The Iraqi government has agreed to let U.S. Rep. Tony Hall visit the
				country next week to assess a humanitarian crisis that has festered
				since the Gulf War of 1990, Hall's office said Monday.
			The Dayton Democrat, who has traveled to other crisis points including
				Sierra Leone and North Korea, will spend three days visiting hospitals
				and other facilities to seek understanding why aid has been ineffective
				in stemming malnourishment and other medical problems.
			Iraq has been under economic sanctions since the war ended, which some
				say have thwarted the country's ability to recover from the devastation
				of the bombing campaign.
			The Persian Gulf War destroyed much of the country's medical
				infrastructure, according to a report by the World Health Organization.
				In 1996 the WHO found that much of the population existed in a state of
				``semi starvation.''
			Hall will be only the second member of Congress to travel in Iraq since
				the war, according to Hall's office. The last visitor was then-U.S. Rep.
				Bill Richardson of New Mexico, who went to help a pair of U.S. oilmen in
				diplomatic trouble.
			Hall flies to Amman, Jordan, on Friday, where he'll spend the night
				before driving to Iraq. Flights are not permitted into Iraq. Hall is to
				return to Washington on April 22.
			Story Filed By Cox Newspapers
		
	

	
		
			Ohio Congressman Arrives in Jordan
			AMMAN, Jordan (AP) U.S. Representative Tony Hall arrived in Jordan on
				Saturday en route to Iraq, where he is expected to look into the plight
				of Iraqis after nearly 10 years of U.N. trade sanctions.
			Hall, an Ohio Democrat and one of very few U.S. congressmen to visit
				Iraq since the 1991 Gulf War over Kuwait, is scheduled to embark Sunday
				the 12-hour overland trip to the Iraqi capital, Baghdad.
			He did not speak to reporters in Jordan, but he told The Associated
				Press before leaving the United States that he hopes to "separate the
				humanitarian work from the political issues." 
			During his four days in Iraq, Hall said he wanted to investigate
				reports from relief agencies that a quarter of Iraqi children may be
				suffering from chronic malnutrition.
			He said he would pay particular attention to what happens to food and
				medicine entering the country under the U.N. oil-for-food program. If
				supplies are not reaching the people who need them, Hall said, he wanted
				to find out whether the United Nations or relief agencies needed to
				handle things differently, or whether "Iraq needs to get out of the way
				and let us do the job."
			The Iraqi government blames the embargo for the malnutrition, infant
				mortality and other hardships.
			The sanctions cannot be lifted until U.N. inspectors certify that Iraq
				has eliminated its weapons of mass destruction and the means to produce
				them. Iraq says it has done so and has barred inspectors since late
				1998.
			At least one other congressman has visited Iraq. Energy Secretary Bill
				Richardson went to Baghdad in 1995 while a representative for New
				Mexico.
		
	

	
		
			Lawmaker Appeals for Innocent Iraqis
			By HASSAN ABDULWAHAB, Associated Press Writer BASRA, Iraq (AP)
			A U.S. lawmaker assessing the impact of U.N. sanctions on Iraq said
				Wednesday it is important not only to force Baghdad to give up its
				weapons of mass destruction but also to do more to ease the hardships on
				ordinary Iraqis.
			Rep. Tony Hall, D-Ohio, did not call for a lifting of sanctions imposed
				on Iraq for its 1990 invasion of Kuwait, but said the United Nations
				should make sure that sanctions do not hurt innocent Iraqis.
			"It was very, very important" to compel Iraq to rid itself of weapons
				of mass destruction so that "it cannot use or export them to other
				countries," he told Associated Press Television News.
			But he insisted the international community can do a much better job in
				helping Iraq deal with its economic and health problems.
			One way would be to speed up the flow of health supplies and other
				urgent commodities to the country under a U.N. humanitarian program, he
				said.
			Iraq says the United States and Britain hold up delivery of needed
				supplies, using their clout in the United Nations. The U.S. government
				says it wants to ensure that Iraq is not buying items that appear to be
				humanitarian in nature but that could be used for making weapons.
		
	

	
		
			IRAQ-POVERTY (Washington)
			Rep. Tony Hall, D-Ohio, urges the United Nations to allow a freer flow
				of food and medicine into Iraq. Hall, who recently returned from a trip
				to Iraq, said U.N. economic sanctions have hurt millions of civilians
				there.
			By AUSTIN ZALKIN.
		
	

  
  
    
      June 6, 2000
      Name Address City, ST Zip
      Dear Name:
      Pat LaCrosse asked me to send this information inviting you to join
      the Georgia O'Keeffe Circle of the Indianapolis Museum of Art's Second
      Century Society (SCS). The SCS brochure I am enclosing will give you the
      historic significance of SCS, as well as listing activities and specific
      benefits awarded to donors at the Georgia O'Keeffe level. Your Georgia
      O'Keeffe membership, please note, includes free admission to all
      art-related activities of the IMA's Young Friends of Art group.
      Additionally, I am sending traditional background materials on the
      Museum and the two latest issues of our Previews Magazine detailing
      upcoming events, exhibitions, and educational programs.
      These are particularly exciting times at the Indianapolis Museum of
      Art: Progress continues on the J.K. Lilly estate-Oldfields, our Ravine
      Garden has been restored to its original splendor, and there is national
      attention showered on our current exhibition of Japanese Painting.
      (please see The New York Times article I have included.) With thousands
      of trees and flowers in bloom, we are having a beautiful Spring!
      Our extraordinary permanent collection, facility, and grounds, we
      understand full well, would not be possible without the philanthropic
      support of civic-minded men and women. In joining SCS, you join the ranks
      of those who believe that bringing art and art education to the city
      makes life better, richer, and more rewarding for the entire
      community.
      A Second Century Society response card and return envelope are
      enclosed. Should you have questions or if I can be of assistance in any
      way, please call me: 317.923.1331, ext. 248.
      Sincerely,
      ARLETTA B.NEWTON Donor Relations Coordinator Enclosures/
      P .S. Both our Barefoot in the Grass family picnic (July 23,2000) and
      the annual SCS Founders Day celebration (October 11,2000) are free for
      Georgia O'Keeffe members. Mark your calendars!
      
    
  

	
		
			 Inauguration of free zone in Dubai for e-commerce
			 Dubai 10-28 (FP) - Dubai's Crown Prince Sheikh Mohamed Bin Rashid Al
				Maktoum inaugurated a free zone for e-commerce today, called Dubai
				Internet City.
			 The preliminary stages of the project, the only one of its kind
				according to its designers, are estimated at $200 million.
			 Sheikh Mohamed, who is also the Defense Minister of the United Arab
				Emirates, announced at the inauguration ceremony that "we want to make
				Dubai a new trading center."
			 The minister, who has his own website, also said: "I want Dubai to be
				the best place in the world for state-of-the-art technology companies."
			 He said companies engaged in e-commerce would be able to set up
				offices, employ staff and own equipment in the open zone, including
				fully-owned foreign companies.
			 The e-commerce free zone is situated in north Dubai, near the
				industrial free zone in Jebel Ali, the top regional and tenth
				international leading area in container transit.
			 The inauguration of Dubai Internet City coincides with the opening of
				an annual IT show in Dubai, the Gulf Information Technology Exhibition
				(Gitex), the biggest in the Middle East.
		
	

	
		
			 Launching the Electronics Free Trade Zone in Dubai
			 Dubai 01-82 (AFP) - Crown Prince of Dubai Al Sheikh Mohammed bin
				Rashid Al Maktoom crown prince of Dubai launched today, i.e. on
				Saturday, an electronics free e-trade zone which has been named "Dubai
				Internet City"
			 The cost in the first stage of this unique project is estimated at 200
				million dollars.
			 Sheikh Mohammed, who is also the UAE Defence Minister, said during the
				launching ceremony "we wish to make Dubai a center of modern economy".
			 The minister who has a personal website on the internet, further said
				that he wanted Dubai to become the best place in the world for the
				advanced (hitech) technological companies.
			 He said that it would he possible for the companies working in the
				electronic trade sector to make Dubai their headquarters, and to
				establish offices here and provide employment and own machinery in the
				zone opened to companies fully owned by the foreigners.
			 The electronic trade free trade zone is situated in the north of
				Dubai, close to the free industrial zone in Jabal Ali Mountain, an area
				which is considered to be the first in the country, and tenth in the
				world for transit movement.
			 Launching 'Dubai Internet city ' coincided with the opening of the
				annual information fair in Dubai which is considered to be the biggest
				in the Middle East - Gulf Information Technology Getix.'
		
	

   
   
      
         
            Even More "Proving Rape"

            Chatterbox feels that the Wall Street Journal editorial page's
coverage of Juanita Broaddrick's rape charges against Bill Clinton (see
"Proving
Rape ," "More Proving
Rape," as well as Michael Kinsley's
"Readme"column in the current issue) cries out for the introduction of the
Scientific Method into the usually mushy business of assessing press
responsibility. With that in mind, Chatterbox hereby inaugurates the
Intellectual Dishonesty (henceforth to be known as the Indis )
Index . Here's how it works: Publications that refuse to acknowledge
(even if to refute the importance of) highly significant but inconvenient facts
in their news or opinion coverage of controversial events will score one
point for the initial offense. They will then score one point for
every subsequent issue or broadcast or Internet posting after the first offense
is noted by Chatterbox if they continue not to report said inconvenient
fact--and an additional two points on days when the news organization
runs a follow-up without making note of said inconvenient fact.
Publications receiving a score of 10 will be inducted into the Indis Hall of
Fame . Publications that get all the way up to 20 will be faxed a likeness
of Joseph Stalin. (Chatterbox would prefer not to invoke the phrase
"intellectual dishonesty," because it's pompous and falsely suggests that only
intellectuals can be intellectually dishonest. But Chatterbox doesn't know any
other easily understandable phrase that describes this particular kind of
offense.)

            For the purposes of this survey, the Wall Street Journal will be
counted as a separate and distinct publication from the Journal 's
editorial page, because, in essence, it is.

            The Journal editorial page continues not to acknowledge that Norma
Kelsey, the friend and employee to Juanita Broaddrick who is one of two people
partially corroborating Broaddrick's rape accusation, is the daughter of a man
whose murderer was pardoned by Gov. Bill Clinton. (A responsible account of the
whole controversy in today's New York Times reports that Kelsey says the pardon
had nothing to do with her corroboration.) The Journal editorial page
gets one point for failing to note the pardon in its initial Op-Ed by
Dorothy Rabinowitz on Feb. 19. Because it has published three times since the
initial omission, it scores an additional three points. And because it
published an editorial Feb. 22 taunting the rest of the press for not following
it on the story--and still didn't mention the pardon--it scores an extra
two points. That comes to a total of six . Chatterbox feels
certain that the Journal editorial page will provide some follow-up
tomorrow to tonight's NBC broadcast of its own Broaddrick interview, which
means that if the Journal editorial page continues to take no action it
will be in the Indis Hall of Fame by Monday at the latest!

            Chatterbox considered but rejected the idea of awarding Rabinowitz bonus
points for having "eventually convinced" Broaddrick to grant an interview to
the New York Times (as the Times reports in today's story). But
the Scientific Method does not permit any tinkering with the Indis
Index 's scoring procedures. And besides, Rabinowitz's efforts on the
Times ' behalf weren't really unethical, just puzzling, given the two
newspapers' intense rivalry. When Chatterbox asked the Journal 's DC
bureau chief, Alan Murray, who exercised good judgment in not breaking
the Broaddrick story (and--full disclosure-- is Chatterbox's former boss), to
comment about a Journal employee's feeding sources to the Times ,
he replied: "I don't really have any comment on what the edit page did. They do
their thing, we do ours." Which is what Journal news employees are
instructed to say whenever the editorial page causes them cringing
embarrassment.

            For her part, Rabinowitz explains to Chatterbox that her efforts on behalf
of the Times were more indifferent than the Times made them
sound. "Ms. Broaddrick told me Sunday that a Times reporter had appeared
at the house in the a.m., and that she had refused an interview," Rabinowitz
writes in an e-mail message. "I asked her why she had decided to talk to the
New York Post 's Steve Dunleavy, and refused a Times reporter. She
said Dunleavy caught her by surprise. She asked if I thought it would be all
right to talk to the Times reporter. I told her it would be--certainly
as all right as talking to Dunleavy. She said, 'Well, I'm sorry I didn't.' She
said she would if he called again. I passed this on to [ Times reporter]
Felicity Barringer during our second day's interview chat. So--that's how it
happens that in the New York Times piece today I'm
described--solemnly--as having 'eventually convinced' her to repeat the story
to the New York Times."

            
               --Timothy Noah
            

         
      
   

   
   
      
         
            Husbands and Wives

            Chatterbox feels a little dense for not realizing sooner that the subtext
(and hence much of the appeal) of a Hillary Clinton-Rudy Giuliani Senate race
would be Wronged Wife vs. Neglectful Husband. By running against Giuliani (who
has been reported in Vanity Fair to have a mistress--he denies it--and,
by all accounts, has a sham marriage), the first lady could exact symbolic
revenge on her philandering husband while advancing the fortunes of the
Democratic party at the same time! That's almost enough for Chatterbox
to jump on the Hillary for Senate bandwagon.

            The media conventional wisdom is that Giuliani would make Hillary Clinton's
marital problems a major campaign issue. "Giuliani makes Ken Starr look like a
patsy," cried Time this week. But, er, wouldn't that be kind of a risky
strategy, given his own problematic union? Many have already opined that the
mayor is too vituperative, too much of a loner to practice the congenial,
teamwork-oriented politics of the Senate; other doubters have pointed to his
hardhearted, uncaring social policies. The last thing he needs is to draw more
attention to these qualities in his personal life.

            Giuliani's estrangement from his wife, Donna Hanover, is made clear in an
interview with Hanover that appears in today's New York Times . Hanover "would not say
whether Giuliani would run for the Senate, whether she would like him to run
for Senate, or whether she would campaign for him if he did. But she did say in
the interview, which was conducted before the recent frenzy of speculation
about Hillary Rodham Clinton's interest in the same New York Senate seat, that
Mrs. Clinton is a 'very interesting' person. 'I think she's dynamic, and I
think she's very smart, and she's an amazing speaker,' Ms. Hanover said." And,
for a punch line: "Ms. Hanover's press secretary, Joannie Danielides, said this
week that Ms. Hanover had no comment on Mrs. Clinton's potential Senate
campaign." Does she have any comment on whether Ms. Hanover plans to be Hillary
Clinton's campaign manager?

            
               Indis Index 
               Update: NBC, in its Juanita Broaddrick broadcast
last night, turned up an additional three witnesses who recall being told by
Broaddrick in the late 1970s that Bill Clinton raped her. This
diminishes-- slightly-- the significance of Norma Kelsey's possible
motives in verifying parts of Broaddrick's story. (One of the three is Kelsey's
sister, whose motives can be similarly questioned; the other two heard
Broaddrick tell her story but did not see her bruised lip, as only Kelsey and
Broaddrick's husband claim to have.) However, Chatterbox notes that NBC, like
every other responsible news organization that's covered this story, reported
that Norma Kelsey's father's killer was pardoned by Gov. Bill Clinton, and
remains perplexed that the Journal editorial page won't. Its Indis
Index is today up to seven.
            

            
               --Timothy Noah and Jodi Kantor
            

         
      
   

   
   
      
         
            The Entrepreneur Is the New Madonna
            

            Dear Joe,

            I know what you mean about being a journalist. Almost every assignment is a
challenge in a different way and it never seems to get easier. I often feel as
if I only get half the story sometimes, so I typically do a massive amount of
reporting that is most often much more than I will ever need. I think that is
why I welcomed doing a book--it gives one the ability to use so much of what is
left on the cutting room floor of daily journalism.

            Think of all the good stuff we all collect daily in our reporting that we
never add to stories. Most often reporters recount these tales with each other
and with their sources rather than share them with the general public. Much of
it, of course, using the standards of top newspapers, cannot be used since it
is largely gossip we are repeating, although it certainly could make for some
very good stories. I often wonder when a really great fictional book will be
written about this era (probably decades and decades hence as it is too close).
In any case, there certainly is no lack of information available about the
moguls of technology now as they all become our current pop icons. I would
posit that Bill and Michael and Steve and Jerry have become the Madonnas of the
current age of stock market mania and celebration of the entrepreneur.

            So the shift in the image of Gates has been an interesting one for me to
watch. The smart-boy technologist is now being painted as the whiny bully. I
personally always thought it was a risk to pin the image of Microsoft on just
one man--at AOL, for example, there was a conscious effort to develop other
"characters," for lack of a better word. So there, while you think of Case, you
also think of Pittman and Leonsis and increasingly a range of other executives.
Steve Ballmer, of course, is now getting a lot more attention at Microsoft, but
it still seems to be Bill's show over there.

            While I did not attend the trial--I was lucky to be able to read your highly
amusing and informative dispatches, several of which made me spit up my lunch
laughing--it certainly seemed as if the image of Bill Gates took a beating and
the insular culture of Microsoft did not look so good. That's ironic, since I
think it was just that insularity that helped them, much in the same way that
AOL has benefited from being in the Virginia suburbs rather than in Silicon
Valley. AOL would never have existed if it had been founded here, I am sure,
since its employees would have been mocked into obscurity by the digerati. Out
in the D.C. area, they looked positively exciting next to all the
government-oriented contractors. I wonder if that means geography is destiny,
and it's still location, location, location.

            From where I am sitting, I think the Microsoft trial has been the really
obvious turning point between the computer era and the digital age. I think it
almost does not matter what the judge does since it's clear that the balance of
power is shifting again, although it not clear where it will land. Will the
strongman of the era be AOL, AT&T, Microsoft, or one of the big media
companies? Or will it be none of them because the Internet allows and
encourages a plethora of strong companies and a complex interconnection of
businesses where none are allowed to dominate?

            I always use two simple words when people tell me that one company--whether
it is AOL or Microsoft or Disney--is in charge of all our destinies: Babylon
was. That incredible empire dominated the world and I imagine it did not seem
possible to people living then that anyone could loosen that empire's grip on
humanity. But we all know how that story turned out.

            Now I am getting way too philosophical, but this is my final missive, so why
not? Perhaps you could hasten a prediction of where this is all going. As for
me, I'll stick with my philosophy of reporting and, I guess, life--nobody
knows.

            Cheers,
Kara

         
      
   

   
   
      
         
            No More Kisses

            In light of Secretary of State Albright's imminent trip to the middle east,
the New York Times ,
Los
Angeles Times and Washington Post emphasize the deteriorating situation
there. But USA Today stays with Princess Di.

            The NYT states that when Albright shows up on Tuesday, she will "read
the riot act" to Yassir Arafat about cracking down on terrorism. Her goal will
be to get Arafat to come out decisively and publicly for peace with Israel,
telling him that there can be no more attempts at co-opting Hamas, and "no more
kisses" of its leaders.

            The Times emphasizes the larger geopolitical context. Given that the
troubles on the West Bank have not only frosted relations between Arafat and
Israel, but also those between Israel and Egypt and between Israel and Saudi
Arabia, the paper states that the U.S. is now facing the prospect that the
moderate Arab coalition it built after the Persian Gulf war to contain Iraq and
Iran is falling apart.

            The LAT focuses on new dissension within the Israeli government about
whether or not Israel should continue to maintain forces in southern Lebanon,
dissension fueled when an Israeli commando raid there late last week was
ambushed, with twelve deaths the result. Perhaps the most striking indicator of
a change of mood inside the government reported by the paper is the news that
cabinet member Ariel Sharon, who as Defense Minister in 1982 got Israel
entrenched in Lebanon in the first place, is among those urging a
reconsideration of the deployment.

            Several papers have word that H and R Block has finally wriggled out of its
controlling stake of Compuserve, but it's the Post with the news that
AOL is set to take it over.

            The Wall Street Journal "Outlook" observes, "In the U.S. job
market, the balance of power is shifting to employees from employers," and
states that "the retention frenzy was triggered in part by previous waves of
corporate downsizing," which left behind survivors who took stock of career
options and used Internet job listings and intensified recruiting to land
better offers, which in turn led to counter-offers and higher salaries. This
has led, says the Journal , to annual compensation rising 5-6 percent a
year.

            Much of the continuing Diana coverage is spinning off into the realm of
meta- and meta-meta-pieces. The LAT , for instance, examines what it
takes to be a new "cuddly-feely" Britain born of the national grief experience.
But USAT and the WP also each run pretty newsy Diana pieces as
well. Both reveal that Tony Blair had conferred with Diana about a goodwill
ambassador job shortly before her death, and USAT reports that Le
Figaro says a dying Diana gave two crash witnesses a message for her family
and children.

            Give the NYT credit for getting Mother Teresa back on the front page
and a bonus point for including some criticism of her in the story. "Not
everyone in Calcutta, or India for that matter, is unanimous in praising the
nun, whose organization was able to raise millions of dollars worldwide but
made virtually no significant changes in the social structure of this
collapsing city's poor neighborhoods. Salvation--hers and that of the destitute
she rescued from the gutters--was her aim, not economic or social development
as many others understand it, she said." It's odd, however, that in repeating
this charge, the Times didn't interview the man most closely associated
with it, Christopher Hitchens, or refer to the book where he set it out, The
Missionary Position . Hmmm, wanna bet there was a copy of the book on
somebody's desk at the Times though?

            What's with the top-of-the-front headline the LAT puts over its
picture of Martina Hingis standing next to Venus Williams after beating her at
the U.S. Open--"Venus Brought Back to Earth"? Doesn't that sound like
celebrating a defeat rather than celebrating a victory? How odd--and a good
illustration of how trying to shoe-horn in a "witty" headline can drive you
into an idea that doesn't fit or is undeserved. Given that Ms. Williams'
parents are rather protective of her and that she is a black in a still
pretty-lilly-white sport, don't be surprised if there's a bit of a complaint
about this.

         
      
   

   
   
      
         
            Fashioning Paula

            
               USA
Today leads with Texas' settlement of its product-liability lawsuit
against the leading tobacco companies. The top nonlocal story at the Washington Post is the latest development in the Indonesian
economic crisis--a rare and boosterish Suharto press conference in contrast to
a further plunging stock market and food riots in outlying towns. The New York Times
leads with a comprehensive poll about American attitudes concerning
abortion.

            In the Texas case, reports USAT , the defendant companies have agreed
to pay about $15 billion over 25 years to reimburse the state for expenses it
incurred in the treatment of smoking-related illnesses. That makes Texas the
third state to settle such a case, joining Florida and Mississippi. There are,
says the paper, a total of 40 such suits on file, with Minnesota's turn coming
next week.

            The Wall Street Journal states that the plaintiffs' lawyers
hired by Texas to try the case will receive as part of the deal almost $2.2
billion in fees.

            The NYT abortion survey, the first conducted by the paper since 1989, was
based on telephone interviews of 1,101 people and detects "a notable shift from
general acceptance" of having the procedure: from 40 percent to 32 percent. And
the pollsters also detected an increasingly acute sensitivity to abortion
timing: Sixty-one percent of those polled thought abortions should be permitted
during the first trimester, but only 15 percent in the second and just 7
percent in the third. (The piece notes that this last stat helps explain why a
focus on partial-birth abortions has proven politically advantageous for
abortion foes.) Nearly 45 percent of those asked to state the present law on
abortion could not give the correct answer.

            The WSJ notes that the just-concluded football/TV deal will probably
mean even steeper cable bills in the near future. Some local cable
companies, the paper says, expect the fees they'll pay ESPN to go up more than
20 percent. And they're in the habit of passing expenses along to Joe Remote.
Even nonsports fans will be affected, notes the Journal , because ESPN is
usually part of basic cable service. (Which raises the question: Hasn't
technology progressed to a point that would allow cafeteria-style programming
choices by subscribers?)

            A scan of the headlines found cheek-by-jowl on the WP 's Page A6
provides an interesting snapshot of the life of the modern Cabinet officer:
"[Ex-HUD Secretary] Cisneros's Ex-Mistress Pleads Guilty," "[Labor Secretary]
Herman Denies Allegations of Influence-Selling Scheme," and "Two Tyson Foods
Executive Indicted Over Gifts to [Ex-Agriculture Secretary] Espy."

            The WSJ reports that, according to an MIT survey, Americans are twice
as likely to back a tax increase going toward the search for extraterrestrials
than one for gene-cloning research.

            The NYT reports that today's issue of the journal Science will
describe an experiment in which people's biological clocks were reset three
hours by shining a bright light on the back of their knees. The finding, if it
holds up, says the Times , may lead to a simple way for airline travelers
to fight jet lag.

            Yesterday's Los Angeles Times ran a story under the headline "Paula
Jones Works on Her Court Appearance," which, illustrated by pictures of Jones,
was all about the various looks she's had since stepping on the public stage.
The piece concluded that she's finally graduated to an image that's
"sophisticated yet soft." Today's WP "Style" section (that's the
opposite of substance, remember) picks up that ball and runs with it, with a
lengthy discourse on the new PJ. "It is," hyperventilates
the Post , one of the most jaw-dropping public make-overs ever." Jones
apparently has "smoothed the frizzy mane of curls that once reached to such
dazzling heights. Her makeup is now subtle and based on natural, not neon,
hues. Her clothing is inspired by the boardroom instead of the secretarial
pool. She has embraced the markers of dignity, refinement and power." In true
newspaper overkill fashion, the piece backs this up by consulting Cynde Watson,
national makeup artist for Bobbi Brown Essentials, and Steven Zdatny, a
historian at West Virginia University specializing in the aesthetics and
politics of hair.

            The placement of these two pieces is a PR triumph, but one carrying the
seeds of its own destruction: If people know all this work is going into making
Paula Jones seem a certain someone, doesn't that just make it obvious that
she's really somebody else?

         
      
   

   
   
      
         
            Stephanopoulos Analyzes His Own Crime

            There was former Clinton aide George Stephanopoulos on ABC's This
Week this morning, furrow-browed and "heartbroken with all the evidence
coming out" against the president. Last week, when the Lewinsky story was only
a few hours old, Stephanopoulos popped up on Good Morning America to
demonstrate his concern. "These are probably the most serious allegations yet
leveled against the president. There's no question that, if they're true, they
... could lead to impeachment proceedings."

            Is Chatterbox alone in thinking there is something strange and even
disgusting about Stephanopoulos' eager show of independence from the president?
The problem isn't so much his disloyalty. Political figures turn on each other
from time to time, for good and bad reasons; we're used to it. Stephanopoulos
wants to run for the Senate and doesn't want to seem a Clinton stooge. By
lending credence to the Lewinsky charges, and treating Clinton's familiar
defenses as the lies and half-lies they seem to be, Stephanopoulos shows he's
not a fool.

            The trouble is that Stephanopoulos himself helped propagate those lies in
the first place. During the 1992 campaign, when Gennifer Flowers first brought
Clinton's philandering to public attention, Stephanopoulos--as Clinton's chief
spinner, distracter, and all-around bullshit artist--played a crucial role in
discrediting Flowers and anyone else who tried to point out the truth, namely
that Clinton had a disturbing zipper problem. (Don't say Stephanopoulos didn't
know. Again, he's not a fool.) Simply put, Stephanopoulos did as much as any
man to get the country into the mess he now so telegenically laments.

            The 1993 documentary The War Room captures some of his efforts on
tape. Early in the film, with the Flowers crisis in full bloom, Sam Donaldson
interviews Stephanopoulos, who blames it all on the "Republican attack
machine." "Gov. Clinton has no character problem," Stephanopoulos declares.
Donaldson suggests that on 60 Minutes Clinton had admitted to
infidelity. "He said he had problems in his marriage," says Stephanopoulos,
correcting Donaldson's deviation from the pre-scripted fudge-phrase of the day.
(Today, of course, the president's defenders claim that Clinton admitted
infidelity on 60 Minutes and that the fully informed voters simply
didn't care.)

            Near the end of The War Room, Stephanopoulos gets a call from someone
who apparently claims to have a list of Clinton paramours, which he is about to
publicize. Stephanopoulos skillfully bullies and cajoles him into keeping
quiet. "You would be laughed at ..." he tells the caller. "I guarantee you that
if you do this you'll never work in Democratic politics again. ... Nobody will
believe you and people will think you're scum."

            You might say that Stephanopoulos helped invent the philander-protection
techniques that seem to have made Clinton so overconfident of his ability to
not get caught. He was one of Clinton's principal enablers, to use a word
employed by Maureen Dowd in today's New York Times . When Democrats
wonder why there is so much resentment of Clinton, they don't need to look much
further than the Big Lie about philandering that Stephanopoulos, Carville (and
a cooperative campaign press corps) helped to put over in 1992.

            Now the dissembler and enabler has become the scholar and ABC News analyst.
It's as if Roy Cohn went on television in the mid-'50s to soberly rue the
damage wreaked by Sen. Joe McCarthy, without any apology for his own role. Much
has been made of the way famous wrongdoers (e.g.: Dick Morris, Marv Albert)
rebound too quickly in our celebrity culture. But usually at least a nanosecond
of contrition is required. Stephanopoulos is cashing in without even going
through the minimal motions of holding himself accountable for misleading the
country. If Clinton, as is now increasingly clear, was a time bomb waiting to
explode, then Stephanopoulos helped smuggle him into the White House and
muffled the ticking.

         
      
   

   
   
      
         
            
               A Physics of Semantics?
            
            
               Each of the chapters of Investigations broaches new territory.
               Each is tentative and incomplete, pointing but not fully adequate.
               Yet, I persistently hope, it is better to light one candle against...what? the darkness? the veil beyond which we have had no framework of questions before?
               There are grounds, reasoned about by the best of philosophers and scientists of the past several centuries, to doubt a physics of semantics.
               We are on shaky ground.
               Yet when the first hard frost comes, when the birches have been swung, their crimson leaves scattered carelessly, when crystals splint shallow ponds and old egrets stand dark watch the coming dawn, long-legged, knowing how winter is thin, when the first phase transition of water to ice forms slight solidity across meadow streams, small creatures of flesh and concept tiptoe gingerly to some far side where, perhaps, something new is to be found.
            
            
               We have lacked a physical definition of an autonomous agent, able to manipulate the universe on its own behalfthe egret whose foreboding of winter leads to lifted wing and steady, powerful flight.
               The egret is as much a part of physical reality as the atom, and perhaps more than the vaunted quark.
               But autonomous agents, we who do daily manipulate the world on our own behalf, we to whom "intentionality" and "purpose" are so inevitably attributed by our common languages, we are, by my definition of autonomous agents, also nothing but physical systems with a peculiar organization of processes and properties.
               If the concept of autonomous agents were something like a usefulor more, a properdefinition of life itself, then autonomous agents span the gap from the merely physical to that new realm of the merely physical where "purpose" is ascribed by all of us to one another.
            
            
               Semantics enters with purpose.
               For this to be true, it is not necessary that the carriers of purpose, say, the same bacterium heading upstream in the glucose gradient, be conscious.
            
            
               I hope my definition of an autonomous agent is useful, an autocatalytic system carrying out a work cycle, now rather broadened by the realization that autonomous agents also do often detect and measure and record displacements of external systems from equilibrium that can be used to extract work, then do extract work, propagating work and constraint construction, from their environment.
            
            
               Know-how
            
            
               Bring ourselves empathetically and objectively back three billion years to the mixed microbial community flourishing right about where most of us are now, plus or minus a modicum of layers of surface crustal material.
            
            
               I want to say that the autonomous agents comprising that community had, individually and collectively, the embodied know-how to get on with making a living in the natural games that constituted their world.
               Indeed, as I have emphasized before, a biosphere is a self-consistent coconstruction of autonomous agents, ways of making a living, and the search procedures, mutation, recombination, as well as behavioral search open to autonomous agents.
               Those means of making a living that were well searched out and mastered by the agents and their search procedures became the kinds of "jobs" that were widely filled, the abundant niches of the bio-sphere.
               There is in this whole self-constructing system a wider know-how, beyond the know-how of any single autonomous agent spinning eagerly in its microenvironment.
               Yet, clearly, the know-how is distributed.
               There is no autonomous agent, no one, who knows how the whole system works, any more than anyone at present knows how the global economic system works in its myriad interactions, deals, steals, hopes, and frustrations.
            
            
               What in the world is "know-how"?
               Philosophers distinguish between "know-how" and "know that."
               I know how to tie my shoes and am learning how to play jazz drums.
               "Know that" concerns propositions, most conveniently, human propositions.
               I know that the moon isthey tell menot made of green cheese.
               I know that the earth circles the sun, that the earth is roughly spherical, that chairs are used to sit on.
               "Know that" brings with it the standard and nonstandard issues of the truth or falseness of propositions as they report states of the world.
               Perhaps higher primates who are trained to manipulate simple symbols with apparent reference to the world also can "know that" with respect to propositions.
            
            
               Unlike "know that," "know-how" does not involve propositions about the world.
               "Know-how" involves procedural knowledge about how to get on in the world.
               The cheetah streaking after the wildebeest, the athletic genius high jumping, have the know-how to do it.
            
            
               Does a bacterium know how to make a living in its world?
               I certainly want to say yes, without attributing consciousness in any way.
               Watch the myriad subtle turnings on and o of genes, metabolic switching, mechanical twitching, sensing of glucose gradient, swimming and tumbling upstream to higher glucose concentrations.
               It knows how all right, even if it cannot talk about how it gets on with its business.
               But then, try to talk about tying your shoes or the skilled driving when you become aware some dozens of miles down the road that you have accomplished the tasks without paying the slightest focused attention.
            
            
               Thank God for know-how.
               Know that is a thin veneer on a four-billion-year-old know-how skill abundant in the biosphere.
               But any autonomous agent proliferating alone or in a congery of other agents, it would seem, is also graced by the selfsame know-how.
               If we synthesize autonomous agents in the next decades and they coevolve under our rapt gaze over months or years into a modestly complex ecosystem brimming with novel life forms, they too will know how to make a living in their mutually created world plus the boundary conditions we more or less intelligently impose on them.
            
            
               The know-how is, in these terms, nothing but another view of the propagating closures of catalysis, work tasks, sensing, recording, and acting that we now recognize as inherent in the doings of autonomous agents.
               The know-how is not outside that propagating organization.
               The know-how is the propagating organization.
            
            
               Semantics
            
            
               All of which brings us, inevitably, to the brink of semantics.
            
            
               It is simple at its roots, you see.
               An incoming molecular species arriving in the interior of an autonomous agent really is (i) food; (ii) poison; (iii) a signal; (iv) neutral; (v) something else.
            
            
               Once there is an autonomous agent, there is a semantics from its privileged point of view.
               The incoming molecule is "yuck" or "yum."
               I think the major conceptual step to yuck or yum is unavoidable once there is an autonomous agent.
               And I think we have roughly the Darwinian criteria in mind.
               If yum, then there will probably be more of this type of agent, osprings of the first.
               If yuck, it is not so likely this lineage will prosper.
            
            
               Once yuck and yum, we are not far from C. S. Pierce's meaning-laden semiotic triad: sign, signified, significans.
               Like it or not, the glucose gradient is a sign, a predictor, of "more glucose that way."
               Granted, the glucose is not an arbitrary symbol, any more than a cloud is an arbitrary symbol of rain.
               In this restricted sense, signs are causally correlated with that which is signified.
               By contrast, the relation between the word "chair" and that which it signifies, and on which I am now sitting, is arbitrary.
               But can chemical signals in bacterial and plant and human communities be arbitrary from a chemical causal point of view?
               If so, can "mere chemicals" be signs in the full Piercean sense?
            
            
               I believe it is clear that mere chemistry in an autonomous agent can harbor symbols and signs in the full senses of the words.
               Consider first the famous genetic code.
               Triplets of nucleotides in an RNA molecule stand for specific amino acids that will end up incorporated into a protein.
               The detailed causal machinery involves transfer RNA molecules with their anticodon site and the distant site to which amino acids are attached, the aminoacyle transferase enzymes that charge the amino acid binding site of each transfer RNA with the proper amino acid among the twenty amino acids, the binding of the charged transfer RNA's anticodon site to the proper RNA code word triplet, the ribosome that glides between adjacent charged transfer RNA molecules and links the successive amino acids into the growing polypeptide chain that hangs free in the cytoplasm, tethered by the ribosome to the messenger RNA molecule as it is "translated."
            
            
               The arbitrariness of the genetic code is exemplified by the evolution of novel transfer RNA molecules, which translate a given messenger RNA code word triplet into a dierent amino acid.
               As J. Monod properly emphasized three decades ago in a slightly dierent context concerning activation and inhibition of enzymes at allosteric sites on the enzyme that are distant from the catalytic site, the relation of chemical structures that achieve control of catalysis are utterly arbitrary with respect to the chemical structures that undergo the catalysis.
               The same is true of the transfer RNA where the anticodon site is distant from the amino acid binding site.
               Because of this, which amino acid is charged onto a particular transfer RNA is utterly arbitrary and controlled by the aminoacyle transferase enzyme that does the charging, plus the structure of the amino acid binding site on the transfer RNA.
               Both of these can be altered without altering the anticodon-codon matching mechanism.
               In short, chemistry allows arbitrary organizations of control relations.
            
            
               It seems fully legitimate to assign the concepts of sign, signified, and significans to the genetic code.
               It seems legitimate to extend that notion to much of the subtle signaling, chemical and otherwise, within and between autonomous agents, as exemplified by plants that upon infestation by a particular insect secrete a secondary metabolite chemical that "warns" other members of the same species that an insect infestation is happening and to turn on defensive anti-insect secondary metabolites.
            
            
               The calculus that is Claude Shannon's elegant information theory has always been about reduction of uncertainty about the statistics of the source of a set of symbols.
               Nowhere in the core of Shannon's work concerning the encoding and transmission of information does the meaning, or semantics, of the information enter.
               This is no criticism, and is widely known and appreciated.
               There is, however, just a hint of semantics in Shannon's view that the semantics resides in the "decoder."
            
            
               I cannot buy Shannon's view unless the decoder is an autonomous agent.
               If not, then the decoder merely transforms a bit string sent along a communication channel into some other discrete or continuous dynamicsperhaps a set of water-filled bowls is drained by turning on a machine that opens valves between the bowls and to the outside world in particular ways.
               The patterns of bowl drainage upon receipt of the binary string messages sent along the communication channel constitutes the decoding.
            
            
               But if the recipient is an autonomous agent such as a bacterium and the incoming molecule is a symbol-sign of a paramecium or an amoeba on the roam and the bacterium swims away and avoids becoming dinner, that sequence of events seems laden with semantics.
               If only the bacterium could tell us: "Did you see that truck of a paramecium coming at me?
               I've run into that one before!
               I ducked under a boulder, and he never sensed me.
               I made it home.
               Pass me some more glucose please, Martha."
            
            
               I will return in the next chapter to discuss such stories, for I will say that we cannot prestate the configuration space of a biosphere and, therefore, cannot deduce that which will unfold.
               Thus, among other things, we must tell stories to understand the oriented actions of agents in their worlds.
               Do not be overly quick to accuse me of anthropomorphizing.
               I too know the risks, including the common claim that we can always in principle translate from "intentional talk" to the fully predictive causal account of the events in question.
               But patience.
               Not only are we unable to prestate the configuration space of a biosphere and predict what will unfold, but we also cannot even translatein the sense of necessary and sucient conditionsfrom legal talk to normal intentional talk, let alone from legal talk of Henderson found guilty of murder to a physical talk about sound-wave forms monitored and masses at space-time lines as a description.
            
            
               Then let's just be naive for the moment.
               The semantics of the yuck or yum coming into a simple autonomous agentsay, an early bacteriumis somehow linked with the embodied know-how of that agent in making a living, or failing to make a living, in its world.
               The semantics of an event is some subset of the fully embroidered, context-dependent set of causal implications of the event, or signal, in question.
            
            
               "For want of a nail, the shoe was lost; for want of the shoe, the horse was lost; and for want of the horse, the rider was lost," more or less, said Benjamin Franklin.
               The semantics of the nail is some subset of this embroidered context-dependent set of implications of the event, or signal, in question to the autonomous agents in the coevolving system.
            
            
               It seems hard to ascribe purpose, in the sense of acting on its own behalf, to a stone or a chair and easy with respect to an alga.
               Of course, there is a sense in which my attribution of semantics to autonomous agents is purely tautological.
               After all, I began by stating that a bacterium swimming upstream in the glucose gradient was acting on its own behalf in an environment, defined an autonomous agent as a physical system able to act on its own behalf, then asked what a physical system must be such that it can act on its own behalf.
               Now, five chapters later, it is hardly an independent deduction that autonomous agents are the proposed organization of matter, energy, and organization to which purposes can be ascribed in the sense of being able to act on their own behalf.
               My definition is a definitional circle.
            
            
               On the other hand, while the definition is circular, like F = MA and Darwin's "natural selection" and "fitness," that does not mean that the set of codefined concepts surrounding my definition of an autonomous agent as a reproducing system that does a work cycle fails to touch the real world.
               Stones and chairs are not, by my definition, autonomous agents.
               All living cells are.
               And the stunning fact directly before us, every day, is that autonomous agents do manipulate the world on their own behalf.
               Watch a pair of nesting birds build their nest.
            
            
               In short, once we have autonomous agents and yuck and yum, it appears that semantics enters the universe as the agents coevolve and behave on their own behalf with one another in the unfolding of a biosphere.
            
            
               Knowing
            
            
               What about "knowing"?
            
            
               Daniel Dennett, in his fine book Darwin's Dangerous Idea , advances a hierarchy of forms of "knowing," if I may use that term, that have arisen in evolution by Darwinian means.
               I find his hierarchy congenial and informative.
               Dennett envisions evolution as a sequence of kinds of construction cranes that bit by bit build up higher-order entities via variation and natural selection.
            
            
               I do not disagree, although I have placed far greater emphasis on the roles of self-organization in evolution.
               Here, in Investigations , I am trying to point at the mysterious but utterly natural hopefulness in which an increasing diversity of broken symmetries in the universe creates the diversity of structures and processes that can constitute and identify ramified and ramifying sources of energy, detect those sources of energy, create devices and processes that couple to those sources of energy, and generate yet more diversity that propagates macroscopic order even further.
               I wonder, in short, at the naturalness and self-generaticity of Dennett's cranes building cranes building cranes in biospheres, perhaps planetary geologies, and beyond.
            
            
               But back to the past.
               Dennett distinguishes "Darwinian creatures," "Pavlovian creatures," "Popperian creatures," and "Gregorian creatures."
               A simple autonomous agent, say, a bacterium, is a Darwinian creature.
               In its simplest version, the creature evolves by mutation, also recombination and natural selection.
               For the moment, no behavioral learning is to be considered.
               So one (or a colony or an ecosystem) of Darwinian creatures adapts more or less as Darwin told us.
            
            
               At the next level up, say, aplysia, a nervous system is present, and the creature is capable of stimulus-response learning, á la Pavlov.
               Indeed, aplysia can learn very simple conditioned stimulithe later analogue is the bell causing the dog to salivate in "expectation" of food.
            
            
               At the next level (Dennett, perhaps properly, reserves this for us vertebrates) is the Popperian creature.
               Popperian creatures, in Dennett's fine phrase, have "internal models" of their world and can "run the internal model" with the clutch disengaged, rather than running the model in real time in the real world.
               This allows us lucky Popperian creatures to allow our "hypotheses to die in our stead."
               I love that image.
            
            
               Beyond the Popperian is the Gregorian creaturenamely, at least humans.
               Dennett makes the wonderful argument that we utilize our toolsliterally stone knives, arrows, digging sticks, machine toolsto enlarge our shared world of facts and processes.
               This enlarged shared world gives us more know-how, and more know that.
               Cultural evolution, at some point, begins to burst out-of-bounds.
               Hard rock music jangles the minarets of Iran.
               Who knows what new cultural forms will blossom?
               Chinese cooking lands in Cuba, and Cuban-Chinese cuisine is invented.
               What's next under the sun?
               Who can say?
            
            
               I very much like Dennett's ladder of know-how, and eventual know that.
               Without invoking consciousness, not because it is not worth invoking but because so little sensible has ever been said on the subject, it seems worth asking how much of this hierarchy could be realized by simple molecular systems, even without evoking nerve cells.
            
            
               I would think a lot of this hierarchy could find molecular realizations.
               For example, bacteria and amoebae do have a kind of Pavlovian learning already, for they have receptors that accommodate to a constant level of a given signal ligand and sense instead a change from the current level.
               This is not yet the association of a more or less arbitrary conditioned stimulus with an unconditioned stimulus, but I can imagine chemistry to accomplish the latter.
               As neurons are supposed to proliferate and form novel synaptic connections that survive if used and to mediate the linkage of conditioned to unconditioned stimulus, why not envision a complex chemistry, say, very complex carbohydrate-synthesis patterns sustained by complex sets of enzymes whose activities are modulated by the dierent carbohydrates themselves, which is true of contemporary carbohydrate metabolism.
               Such a system might blindly try out variant patterns of synthesis until it could establish a self-sustaining web linking the carbohydrates, the enzymes, and certain protein receptors mediating the linkage between unconditioned and conditioned stimulus, then maintain that linkage by positive feedback loops.
               The image is not too far from how it is imagined that "idiotype" and "anti-idiotype" immune networks work to sustain synthesis of a set of desired antibodies against an incoming pathogen.
               In such networks, for which there is modestly good evidence, a given first antibody serves as an antigen that stimulates the body to produce a second antibody that binds to the unique amino acid sequences, called the "idiotype" of the first antibody.
               In turn, the second "anti-idiotype" antibody stimulates a third, which stimulates a fourth.
               But this series is likely to form feedback loops because the first and third antibody can often both bind to the same site on the second antibody, hence, the first and third antibodies are similar shapes in shape space.
               It is not much of a stretch to think of the immune system as a conditioned stimulus response system.
            
            
               Popperian creatures?
               Why cannot the molecular-sensing and hypothesis-testing churning concerns of the bacterium as it senses a paramecium churn twenty cycles before kicking in the rotary motor, or not, such that the wee bacterium hides under a boulder of a grain of sand until the beast passes by?
               Are nerves necessary?
               Plants, as noted, are said to signal one another with complex secondary metabolites to characterize the particular kinds of insects infesting the glade.
               There are arbitrary structural relations between the metabolite and the insect, just as symbols in human language are often arbitrary with respect to the signified.
               Not bad for nerveless nonvertebrates.
            
            
               I do get stuck at Gregorian creatures.
               Even here, the free and open creating of new symbol strings in a language, wherever new sentences can be created, is not that fundamentally dierent from the persistent open creation of new kinds of molecules in the biosphere as a whole.
               If the conversation we recent two-legged ones are having with respect to our digging sticks and atomic bombs is impressive, so too is the chemical conversation in any full-fledged ecosystem, where we are all instrumental in the lives of one another.
            
            
               I suppose I am naively driven to consider that the biosphere, with its urgent diversity in which, emboldened by all our know-how, we do get on with a very rich conversation, may very early already have harbored all the levels of which Dennett speaks.
               We humans are just more gregarious with our vocal cords and e-mail, I guess.
               Smart place, a biosphere, lots to talk about.
               Four billion years of yammering.
               Slapstick comedy may have started a long time ago.
            
            
               Ethics
            
            
               And what of ethics?
               Does a whiff of ethical issue arise with autonomous agents?
               Yuck or yum from my point of view if I am an autonomous agent.
               There are deep reasons for caution.
               Hume told us long ago about the "naturalistic fallacy": One cannot deduce "ought" from "is."
               From the fact that mothers care for their young, we cannot deduce that they ought to do so, Hume argued.
               From the fact that Hitler set out to conquer Europe and more and to kill Jewry, we cannot deduce that he ought to have done so.
            
            
               Indeed, Hume's injunction underlies the caution of scientists about making ethical statements.
               We scientists find the facts.
               You citizens across the globe can argue the ethics.
               But if Hume warns us not to deduce ought from is, where do values come from at all?
               Hume's injunction against deduction from is to ought nevertheless began by recognizing the legitimacy of the category "ought."
            
            
               The eorts following Hume to understand the meaning of ethical assertions have been long, twisted, arduous.
               Following the dictates of the logical positivists of the Vienna Circle that only those statements capable of verification were meaningful, philosophers as famous as G. E. Moore came to wonder if ethical assertions were merely emotive utterances.
               "It is wrong to kill."
               Becomes, "Agggah!"
               Does the positivist argument seem persuasive?
               It has always amused me that the core injunction of the logical positivists, "only those statements that are empirically verifiable are meaningful," is itself not empirically verifiable.
               One is reminded of something about hoisting and petards.
            
            
               John Rawls of Harvard has argued eloquently that our human notions of fairness derive from what we would all "contractually" agree to, were we to know before birth that we would all be born with diering abilities and endowments.
               Thus "equality before the law" is one contract that Rawls commends to us.
               "Equality before the law" is far more refined than the yuck or yum of the bacterium.
               The emergence of ethics in the evolution of life on this planet is a fascinating issue.
            
            
               I will content myself with wondering where "value" and the rudiments of "intentionality" come from in the physical universe in the first place and leave social contracts for other eorts.
               Where is the place of value in a world of fact?
            
            
               So, a short soliloquy.
               Facts are know-that statements.
               But know-how preceded know that.
               While fully aware of Hume's injunction, I think that from the autonomous agent's perspective, yuck or yum is primary, unavoidable, and of the deepest importance to that agent.
               I suppose we apply the Darwinian criteria.
               Too much yuck, this one and its progeny are gone from the future of the biosphere.
               Without attributing consciousness to an E. coli , or an autonomous agent we may create in the near future, I cannot help but feel that the rudiments of value are present once autonomous agents are around.
            
            
               And again without attributing consciousness, once an autonomous agent is around is the rudiment of intentionality present?
               If so, another cornerstone of ethical activity has been laid.
               Ethical behavior requires first the logical possibility of behavior for which one is responsible.
               You are not responsible for acts and eects beyond your control.
               To act ethically, you must first be able to act at all.
            
            
               But what are "acts" in the first place?
               Daniel Yamins is a brilliant young mathematician.
               Now entering Harvard, Dan spent a summer with me at the Santa Fe Institute before he learned to drive, after an earlier summer spent in the laboratory of Jack Szostak at Harvard, where, at age fourteen, Dan was learning to evolve RNA molecules to bind arbitrary ligands.
               Dan and I struggled that summer to make the distinction between the "doings" of an autonomous agent and mere happenings in and around the autonomous agent.
               Note we say the E. coli is swimming upstream in the glucose gradient to get dinner.
               But all sorts of molecular vibrational, rotational, and translational motions are occurring.
               What are actions and what are mere happenings?
            
            
               I do not think we were successful in drawing a clean distinction between doings and happenings with clear mathematics.
               But I sense that the distinction between doings and happenings, Dan's happy phrasing, is relevant for E. coli , tigers, us, trees, and autonomous agents in general.
               We will meet a similar problem in the next chapter when we attempt to distinguish between the function of a part of an organism and the other causal consequences of that part of the organism.
            
            
               Strange and interesting, is it not, that these issues all seem to arise with autonomous agents but not otherwise?
               Granted that we here seem to confront the language game circularity alluded to earlier, yet I do truly think that the rudiments of semantics, intentionality, value, and ethics arise with autonomous agents.
               I do not think those rudiments suce to jump over Hume's naturalistic fallacy.
               We cannot deduce ought from is in any concrete context, but I think we have the categories of ought and is in the physical universe once we have autonomous agents.
            
         
      
   

    
        
            WARTIME
            After the attacks had occurred, while crisis managers were still sorting out a number
                of unnerving false alarms, Air Force One flew to Barksdale Air Force Base in
                Louisiana. One of these alarms was of a reported threat against Air Force One
                itself, a threat eventually run down to a misunderstood communication in the hectic
                White House Situation Room that morning.
            
            While the plan at the elementary school had been to return to Washington, by the time
                Air Force One was airborne at 9:55 A.M. the Secret Service, the President's
                advisers, and Vice President Cheney were strongly advising against it. President
                Bush reluctantly acceded to this advice and, at about 10:10, Air Force One changed
                course and began heading due west. The immediate objective was to find a safe
                location-not too far away-where the President could land and speak to the American
                people. The Secret Service was also interested in refueling the aircraft and paring
                down the size of the traveling party. The President's military aide, an Air Force
                officer, quickly researched the options and, sometime around 10:20, identified
                Barksdale Air Force Base as an appropriate interim destination.
            
            When Air Force One landed at Barksdale at about 11:45, personnel from the local
                Secret Service office were still en route to the airfield. The motorcade consisted
                of a military police lead vehicle and a van; the proposed briefing theater had no
                phones or electrical outlets. Staff scrambled to prepare another room for the
                President's remarks, while the lead Secret Service agent reviewed the security
                situation with superiors in Washington. The President completed his statement, which
                for security reasons was taped and not broadcast live, and the traveling party
                returned to Air Force One. The next destination was discussed: once again the Secret
                Service recommended against returning to Washington, and the Vice President agreed.
                Offutt Air Force Base in Nebraska was chosen because of its elaborate command and
                control facilities, and because it could accommodate overnight lodging for 50
                persons. The Secret Service wanted a place where the President could spend several
                days, if necessary.
            
            Air Force One arrived at Offutt at 2:50 P.M. At about 3:15, President Bush met with
                his principal advisers through a secure video teleconference.
            
            Rice said President Bush began the meeting with the words, "We're at war," and that Director of Central Intelligence George Tenet said
                the agency was still assessing who was responsible, but the early signs all pointed
                to al Qaeda. That evening the Deputies Committee returned to the pending
                presidential directive they had labored over during the summer.
            
            The secretary of defense directed the nation's armed forces to Defense Condition 3,
                an increased state of military readiness.
            
            For the first time in history, all nonemergency civilian aircraft in the United
                States were grounded, stranding tens of thousands of passengers across the country.
                Contingency plans for the continuity of government and the evacuation of leaders had
                been implemented.   The Pentagon had been struck; the White House or the Capitol had
                narrowly escaped direct attack. Extraordinary security precautions were put in place
                at the nation's borders and ports.
            In the late afternoon, the President overruled his aides' continuing reluctance to
                have him return to Washington and ordered Air Force One back to Andrews Air Force
                Base. He was flown by helicopter back to the White House, passing over the
                still-smoldering Pentagon. At 8:30 that evening, President Bush addressed the nation
                from the White House. After emphasizing that the first priority was to help the
                injured and protect against any further attacks, he said: "We will make no
                distinction between the terrorists who committed these acts and those who harbor
                them." He quoted Psalm 23-"though I walk through the valley of the shadow of death .
                . ." No American, he said,"will ever forget this day."
            
            Following his speech, President Bush met again with his National Security Council
                (NSC), expanded to include Secretary of Transportation Norman Mineta and Joseph
                Allbaugh, the director of the Federal Emergency Management Agency. Secretary of
                State Colin Powell, who had returned from Peru after hearing of the attacks, joined
                the discussion. They reviewed the day's events.
            
            IMMEDIATE RESPONSES AT HOME
            As the urgent domestic issues accumulated, White House Deputy Chief of Staff Joshua
                Bolten chaired a temporary "domestic consequences" group.
            
            The agenda in those first days is worth noting, partly as a checklist for future
                crisis planners. It began with problems of how to help victims and stanch the
                flowing losses to the American economy, such as
            
                Organizing federal emergency assistance. One question was what kind of public
                    health advice to give about the air quality in Lower Manhattan in the vicinity
                    of the fallen buildings.
                
                Compensating victims. They evaluated legislative options, eventually setting
                    up a federal compensation fund and defining the powers of a special master to
                    run it.
                Determining federal assistance. On September 13, President Bush promised to
                    provide $20 billion for New York City, in addition to the $20 billion his budget
                    director had already guessed might be needed for the country as a whole.
                
                Restoring civil aviation. On the morning of September 13, the national
                    airspace reopened for use by airports that met newly improvised security
                    standards.
                Reopening the financial markets. After extraordinary emergency efforts
                    involving the White House, the Treasury Department, and the Securities and
                    Exchange Commission, aided by unprecedented cooperation among the usually
                    competitive firms of the financial industry, the markets reopened on Monday,
                    September 17.
                
                Deciding when and how to return border and port security to more normal
                    operations.
                Evaluating legislative proposals to bail out the airline industry and cap its
                    liability.
            
            The very process of reviewing these issues underscored the absence of an effective
                government organization dedicated to assessing vulnerabilities and handling problems
                of protection and preparedness. Though a number of agencies had some part of the
                task, none had security as its primary mission. By September 14, Vice President
                Cheney had decided to recommend, at least as a first step, a new White House entity
                to coordinate all the relevant agencies rather than tackle the challenge of
                combining them in a new department. This new White House entity would be a homeland
                security adviser and Homeland Security Council-paralleling the National Security
                Council system. Vice President Cheney reviewed the proposal with President Bush and
                other advisers. President Bush announced the new post and its first occupant-
                Pennsylvania governor Tom Ridge-in his address to a joint session of Congress on
                September 20.
            
            Beginning on September 11, Immigration and Naturalization Service agents working in
                cooperation with the FBI began arresting individuals for immigration violations whom
                they encountered while following up leads in the FBI's investigation of the 9/11
                attacks. Eventually, 768 aliens were arrested as "special interest" detainees. Some
                (such as Zacarias Moussaoui) were actually in INS custody before 9/11; most were
                arrested after. Attorney General John Ashcroft told us that he saw his job in
                directing this effort as "risk minimization," both to find out who had committed the
                attacks and to prevent a subsequent attack. Ashcroft ordered all special interest
                immigration hearings closed to the public, family members, and press; directed
                government attorneys to seek denial of bond until such time as they were "cleared"
                of terrorist connections by the FBI and other agencies; and ordered the identity of
                the detainees kept secret. INS attorneys charged with prosecuting the immigration
                violations had trouble getting information about the detainees and any terrorist
                connections; in the chaos after the attacks, it was very difficult to reach law
                enforcement officials, who were following up on other leads. The clearance process
                approved by the Justice Department was time-consuming, lasting an average of about
                80 days.
            
            We have assessed this effort to detain aliens of "special interest." The detainees
                were lawfully held on immigration charges. Records indicate that 531 were deported,
                162 were released on bond, 24 received some kind of immigration benefits, 12 had
                their proceedings terminated, and 8-one of whom was Moussaoui-were remanded to the
                custody of the U.S. Marshals Service. The inspector general of the Justice
                Department found significant problems in the way the 9/11 detainees were
                    treated.
            
            In response to a request about the counterterrorism benefits of the 9/11 detainee
                program, the Justice Department cited six individuals on the special interest
                detainee list, noting that two (including Moussaoui) were linked directly to a
                terrorist organization and that it had obtained new leads helpful to the
                investigation of the 9/11 terrorist attacks.
            
            A senior al Qaeda detainee has stated that U.S. government efforts after the 9/11
                attacks to monitor the American homeland, including review of Muslims' immigration
                files and deportation of nonpermanent residents, forced al Qaeda to operate less
                freely in the United States.
            
            The government's ability to collect intelligence inside the United States, and the
                sharing of such information between the intelligence and law enforcement
                communities, was not a priority before 9/11. Guidelines on this subject issued in
                August 2001 by Deputy Attorney General LarryThompson essentially recapitulated prior
                guidance. However, the attacks of 9/11 changed everything. Less than one week after
                September 11, an early version of what was to become the Patriot Act (officially,
                the USA PATRIOT Act) began to take shape.
            
            A central provision of the proposal was the removal of "the wall" on information
                sharing between the intelligence and law enforcement communities (discussed in
                chapter 3). Ashcroft told us he was determined to take every conceivable action,
                within the limits of the Constitution, to identify potential terrorists and deter
                additional attacks.
            
            The administration developed a proposal that eventually passed both houses of
                Congress by large majorities and was signed into law on October 26.
            
            Flights of Saudi Nationals Leaving the United States
            Three questions have arisen with respect to the departure of Saudi nationals from the
                United States in the immediate aftermath of 9/11: (1) Did any flights of Saudi
                nationals take place before national airspace reopened on September 13, 2001? (2)
                Was there any political intervention to facilitate the departure of Saudi nationals?
                (3) Did the FBI screen Saudi nationals thoroughly before their departure?
            First, we found no evidence that any flights of Saudi nationals, domestic or
                international, took place before the reopening of national airspace on the morning
                of September 13, 2001.   To the contrary, every flight we have identified occurred
                after national airspace reopened.
            
            Second, we found no evidence of political intervention. We found no evidence that
                anyone at the White House above the level of Richard Clarke participated in a
                decision on the departure of Saudi nationals. The issue came up in one of the many
                video teleconferences of the interagency group Clarke chaired, and Clarke said he
                approved of how the FBI was dealing with the matter when it came up for interagency
                discussion at his level. Clarke told us, "I asked the FBI, Dale Watson . . . to
                handle that, to check to see if that was all right with them, to see if they wanted
                access to any of these people, and to get back to me. And if they had no objections,
                it would be fine with me." Clarke added,"I have no recollection of clearing it with
                anybody at the White House."
            
            Although White House Chief of Staff Andrew Card remembered someone telling him about
                the Saudi request shortly after 9/11, he said he had not talked to the Saudis and
                did not ask anyone to do anything about it. The President and Vice President told us
                they were not aware of the issue at all until it surfaced much later in the media.
                None of the officials we interviewed recalled any intervention or direction on this
                matter from any political appointee.
            
            Third, we believe that the FBI conducted a satisfactory screening of Saudi nationals
                who left the United States on charter flights.
            
            The Saudi government was advised of and agreed to the FBI's requirements that
                passengers be identified and checked against various databases before the flights
                departed.  The Federal Aviation Administration representative working in the FBI
                operations center made sure that the FBI was aware of the flights of Saudi nationals
                and was able to screen the passengers before they were allowed to depart.
            
            The FBI interviewed all persons of interest on these flights prior to their
                departures. They concluded that none of the passengers was connected to the 9/11
                attacks and have since found no evidence to change that conclusion. Our own
                independent review of the Saudi nationals involved confirms that no one with known
                links to terrorism departed on these flights.
            
            PLANNING FOR WAR
            By late in the evening of September 11, the President had addressed the nation on the
                terrible events of the day. Vice President Cheney described the President's mood as
                somber.  The long day was not yet over. When the larger meeting that included his
                domestic department heads broke up, President Bush chaired a smaller meeting of top
                advisers, a group he would later call his "war council."  This group usually
                included Vice President Cheney, Secretary of State Powell, Secretary of Defense
                Donald Rumsfeld, General Hugh Shelton, Vice Chairman of the Joint Chiefs (later to
                become chairman) General Myers, DCI Tenet, Attorney General Ashcroft, and FBI
                Director Robert Mueller. From the White House staff, National Security Advisor
                Condoleezza Rice and Chief of Staff Card were part of the core group, often joined
                by their deputies, Stephen Hadley and Joshua Bolten.
            In this restricted National Security Council meeting, the President said it was a
                time for self-defense. The United States would punish not just the perpetrators of
                the attacks, but also those who harbored them. Secretary Powell said the United
                States had to make it clear to Pakistan, Afghanistan, and the Arab states that the
                time to act was now. He said we would need to build a coalition. The President noted
                that the attacks provided a great opportunity to engage Russia and China. Secretary
                Rumsfeld urged the President and the principals to think broadly about who might
                have harbored the attackers, including Iraq, Afghanistan, Libya, Sudan, and Iran. He
                wondered aloud how much evidence the United States would need in order to deal with
                these countries, pointing out that major strikes could take up to 60 days to
                    assemble.
            
            President Bush chaired two more meetings of the NSC on September 12. In the first
                meeting, he stressed that the United States was at war with a new and different kind
                of enemy. The President tasked principals to go beyond their pre-9/11 work and
                develop a strategy to eliminate terrorists and punish those who support them. As
                they worked on defining the goals and objectives of the upcoming campaign, they
                considered a paper that went beyond al Qaeda to propose the "elimination of
                terrorism as a threat to our way of life," an aim that would include pursuing other
                international terrorist organizations in the Middle East.
            
            Rice chaired a Principals Committee meeting on September 13 in the Situation Room to
                refine how the fight against al Qaeda would be conducted. The principals agreed that
                the overall message should be that anyone supporting al Qaeda would risk harm. The
                United States would need to integrate diplomacy, financial measures, intelligence,
                and military actions into an overarching strategy. The principals also focused on
                Pakistan and what it could do to turn the Taliban against al Qaeda. They concluded
                that if Pakistan decided not to help the United States, it too would be at
                    risk.
            
            The same day, Deputy Secretary of State Richard Armitage met with the Pakistani
                ambassador to the United States, Maleeha Lodhi, and the visiting head of Pakistan's
                military intelligence service, Mahmud Ahmed. Armitage said that the United States
                wanted Pakistan to take seven steps:
            
                to stop al Qaeda operatives at its border and end all logistical support for
                    Bin Ladin;
                to give the United States blanket overflight and landing rights for all
                    necessary military and intelligence operations;
                to provide territorial access to U.S. and allied military intelligence and
                    other personnel to conduct operations against al Qaeda;
                to provide the United States with intelligence information;
                to continue to publicly condemn the terrorist acts;
                to cut off all shipments of fuel to the Taliban and stop recruits from going
                    to Afghanistan; and,
                if the evidence implicated bin Ladin and al Qaeda and the Taliban continued to
                    harbor them, to break relations with the Taliban government.
                
            
            Pakistan made its decision swiftly. That afternoon, Secretary of State Powell
                announced at the beginning of an NSC meeting that Pakistani President Musharraf had
                agreed to every U.S. request for support in the war on terrorism. The next day, the
                U.S. embassy in Islamabad confirmed that Musharraf and his top military commanders
                had agreed to all seven demands." Pakistan will need full US support as it proceeds
                with us," the embassy noted." Musharraf said the GOP [government of Pakistan] was
                making substantial concessions in allowing use of its territory and that he would
                pay a domestic price. His standing in Pakistan was certain to suffer. To
                counterbalance that he needed to show that Pakistan was benefiting from his
                    decisions."
            
            At the September 13 NSC meeting, when Secretary Powell described Pakistan's reply,
                President Bush led a discussion of an appropriate ultimatum to the Taliban. He also
                ordered Secretary Rumsfeld to develop a military plan against the Taliban. The
                President wanted the United States to strike the Taliban, step back, wait to see if
                they got the message, and hit them hard if they did not. He made clear that the
                military should focus on targets that would influence the Taliban's behavior.
            
            President Bush also tasked the State Department, which on the following day delivered
                to the White House a paper titled "Game Plan for a Political- Military Strategy for
                Pakistan and Afghanistan." The paper took it as a given that Bin Ladin would
                continue to act against the United States even while under Taliban control. It
                therefore detailed specific U.S. demands for the Taliban: surrender Bin Ladin and
                his chief lieutenants, including Ayman al Zawahiri; tell the United States what the
                Taliban knew about al Qaeda and its operations; close all terrorist camps; free all
                imprisoned foreigners; and comply with all UN Security Council resolutions.
            
            The State Department proposed delivering an ultimatum to the Taliban: produce Bin
                Ladin and his deputies and shut down al Qaeda camps within 24 to 48 hours, or the
                United States will use all necessary means to destroy the terrorist infrastructure.
                The State Department did not expect the Taliban to comply. Therefore, State and
                Defense would plan to build an international coalition to go into Afghanistan. Both
                departments would consult with NATO and other allies and request intelligence,
                basing, and other support from countries, according to their capabilities and
                resources. Finally, the plan detailed a public U.S. stance: America would use all
                its resources to eliminate terrorism as a threat, punish those responsible for the
                9/11 attacks, hold states and other actors responsible for providing sanctuary to
                terrorists, work with a coalition to eliminate terrorist groups and networks, and
                avoid malice toward any people, religion, or culture.
            
            President Bush recalled that he quickly realized that the administration would have
                to invade Afghanistan with ground troops.
            
            But the early briefings to the President and Secretary Rumsfeld on military options
                were disappointing.    Tommy Franks, the commanding general of Central Command
                (CENTCOM), told us that the President was dissatisfied. The U.S. military, Franks
                said, did not have an off-the-shelf plan to eliminate the al Qaeda threat in
                Afghanistan. The existing Infinite Resolve options did not, in his view, amount to
                such a plan.
            
            All these diplomatic and military plans were reviewed over the weekend of September
                15-16, as President Bush convened his war council at Camp David.
            
            Present were Vice President Cheney, Rice, Hadley, Powell, Armitage, Rumsfeld,
                Ashcroft, Mueller, Tenet, Deputy Secretary of Defense Paul Wolfowitz, and Cofer
                Black, chief of the DCI's Counterterrorist Center.
            Tenet described a plan for collecting intelligence and mounting covert operations. He
                proposed inserting CIA teams into Afghanistan to work with Afghan warlords who would
                join the fight against al Qaeda.  These CIA teams would act jointly with the
                military's Special Operations units. President Bush later praised this proposal,
                saying it had been a turning point in his thinking.
            
            General Shelton briefed the principals on the preliminary plan for Afghanistan that
                the military had put together. It drew on the Infinite Resolve "phased campaign"
                plan the Pentagon had begun developing in November 2000 as an addition to the strike
                options it had been refining since 1998. But Shelton added a new element-the
                possible significant use of ground forces- and that is where President Bush
                reportedly focused his attention.
            
            After hearing from his senior advisers, President Bush discussed with Rice the
                contents of the directives he would issue to set all the plans into motion. Rice
                prepared a paper that President Bush then considered with principals on Monday
                morning, September 17. "The purpose of this meeting," he recalled saying,"is to
                assign tasks for the first wave of the war against terrorism. It starts today."
            
            In a written set of instructions slightly refined during the morning meeting,
                President Bush charged Ashcroft, Mueller, and Tenet to develop a plan for homeland
                defense. President Bush directed Secretary of State Powell to deliver an ultimatum
                to the Taliban along the lines that his department had originally proposed. The
                State Department was also tasked to develop a plan to stabilize Pakistan and to be
                prepared to notify Russia and countries near Afghanistan when hostilities were
                    imminent.
            
            In addition, Bush and his advisers discussed new legal authorities for covert action
                in Afghanistan, including the administration's first Memorandum of Notification on
                Bin Ladin. Shortly thereafter, President Bush authorized broad new authorities for
                the CIA.
            
            President Bush instructed Rumsfeld and Shelton to develop further the Camp David
                military plan to attack the Taliban and al Qaeda if the Taliban rejected the
                ultimatum. The President also tasked Rumsfeld to ensure that robust measures to
                protect American military forces against terrorist attack were implemented
                worldwide. Finally, he directed Treasury Secretary Paul O'Neill to craft a plan to
                target al Qaeda's funding and seize its assets.
            
            NSC staff members had begun leading meetings on terrorist fund-raising by September
                    18.
            
            Also by September 18, Powell had contacted 58 of his foreign counterparts and
                received offers of general aid, search-and-rescue equipment and personnel, and
                medical assistance teams.
            
            On the same day, Deputy Secretary of State Armitage was called by Mahmud Ahmed
                regarding a two-day visit to Afghanistan during which the Pakistani intelligence
                chief had met with Mullah Omar and conveyed the U.S. demands. Omar's response was
                "not negative on all these points." But the
                administration knew that theTaliban was unlikely to turn over Bin Ladin.
            
            The pre-9/11 draft presidential directive on al Qaeda evolved into a new directive,
                National Security Presidential Directive 9, now titled "Defeating the Terrorist
                Threat to the United States." The directive would now extend to a global war on
                terrorism, not just on al Qaeda. It also incorporated the President's determination
                not to distinguish between terrorists and those who harbor them. It included a
                determination to use military force if necessary to end al Qaeda's sanctuary in
                Afghanistan. The new directive-formally signed on October 25, after the fighting in
                Afghanistan had already begun-included new material followed by annexes discussing
                each targeted terrorist group. The old draft directive on al Qaeda became, in
                effect, the first annex.
            
            The United States would strive to eliminate all terrorist networks, dry up their
                financial support, and prevent them from acquiring weapons of mass destruction. The
                goal was the "elimination of terrorism as a threat to our way of life."
            
            "PHASE TWO" AND THE QUESTION OF IRAQ
            President Bush had wondered immediately after the attack whether Saddam Hussein's
                regime might have had a hand in it. Iraq had been an enemy of the United States for
                11 years, and was the only place in the world where the United States was engaged in
                ongoing combat operations. As a former pilot, the President was struck by the
                apparent sophistication of the operation and some of the piloting, especially
                Hanjour's high-speed dive into the Pentagon. He told us he recalled Iraqi support
                for Palestinian suicide terrorists as well. Speculating about other possible states
                that could be involved, the President told us he also thought about Iran.
            
            Clarke has written that on the evening of September 12, President Bush told him and
                some of his staff to explore possible Iraqi links to 9/11. "See if Saddam did this,"
                Clarke recalls the President telling them." See if he's linked in any way." While he believed the details of Clarke's account to be
                incorrect, President Bush acknowledged that he might well have spoken to Clarke at
                some point, asking him about Iraq.
            
            Responding to a presidential tasking, Clarke's office sent a memo to Rice on
                September 18, titled "Survey of Intelligence Information on Any Iraq Involvement in
                the September 11 Attacks." Rice's chief staffer on Afghanistan, Zalmay Khalilzad,
                concurred in its conclusion that only some anecdotal evidence linked Iraq to al
                Qaeda. The memo found no "compelling case" that Iraq had either planned or
                perpetrated the attacks. It passed along a few foreign intelligence reports,
                including the Czech report alleging an April 2001 Prague meeting between Atta and an
                Iraqi intelligence officer (discussed in chapter 7) and a Polish report that
                personnel at the headquarters of Iraqi intelligence in Baghdad were told before
                September 11 to go on the streets to gauge crowd reaction to an unspecified event.
                Arguing that the case for links between Iraq and al Qaeda was weak, the memo pointed
                out that Bin Ladin resented the secularism of Saddam Hussein's regime. Finally, the
                memo said, there was no confirmed reporting on Saddam cooperating with Bin Ladin on
                unconventional weapons.
            
            On the afternoon of 9/11, according to contemporaneous notes, Secretary Rumsfeld
                instructed General Myers to obtain quickly as much information as possible. The
                notes indicate that he also told Myers that he was not simply interested in striking
                empty training sites. He thought the U.S. response should consider a wide range of
                options and possibilities. The secretary said his instinct was to hit Saddam Hussein
                at the same time-not only Bin Ladin. Secretary Rumsfeld later explained that at the
                time, he had been considering either one of them, or perhaps someone else, as the
                responsible party.
            
            According to Rice, the issue of what, if anything, to do about Iraq was really
                engaged at Camp David. Briefing papers on Iraq, along with many others, were in
                briefing materials for the participants. Rice told us the administration was
                concerned that Iraq would take advantage of the 9/11 attacks. She recalled that in
                the first Camp David session chaired by the President, Rumsfeld asked what the
                administration should do about Iraq. Deputy Secretary Wolfowitz made the case for
                striking Iraq during "this round" of the war on terrorism.
            
            A Defense Department paper for the Camp David briefing book on the strategic concept
                for the war on terrorism specified three priority targets for initial action: al
                Qaeda, theTaliban, and Iraq. It argued that of the three, al Qaeda and Iraq posed a
                strategic threat to the United States. Iraq's long-standing involvement in terrorism
                was cited, along with its interest in weapons of mass destruction.
            
            Secretary Powell recalled that Wolfowitz-not Rumsfeld-argued that Iraq was ultimately
                the source of the terrorist problem and should therefore be attacked.
            
            Powell said that Wolfowitz was not able to justify his belief that Iraq was behind
                9/11. "Paul was always of the view that Iraq was a problem that had to be dealt
                with," Powell told us." And he saw this as one way of using this event as a way to
                deal with the Iraq problem." Powell said that President Bush did not give
                Wolfowitz's argument "much weight." Though continuing to
                worry about Iraq in the following week, Powell said, President Bush saw Afghanistan
                as the priority.
            
            President Bush told Bob Woodward that the decision not to invade Iraq was made at the
                morning session on September 15. Iraq was not even on the table during the September
                15 afternoon session, which dealt solely with Afghanistan.
            
            Rice said that when President Bush called her on Sunday, September 16, he said the
                focus would be on Afghanistan, although he still wanted plans for Iraq should the
                country take some action or the administration eventually determine that it had been
                involved in the 9/11 attacks.
            
            At the September 17 NSC meeting, there was some further discussion of "phase two" of
                the war on terrorism.
            
            President Bush ordered the Defense Department to be ready to deal with Iraq if
                Baghdad acted against U.S. interests, with plans to include possibly occupying Iraqi
                oil fields.
            
            Within the Pentagon, Deputy Secretary Wolfowitz continued to press the case for
                dealing with Iraq. Writing to Rumsfeld on September 17 in a memo headlined
                "Preventing More Events,"he argued that if there was even a 10 percent chance that
                Saddam Hussein was behind the 9/11 attack, maximum priority should be placed on
                eliminating that threat. Wolfowitz contended that the odds were "far more" than 1 in
                10, citing Saddam's praise for the attack, his long record of involvement in
                terrorism, and theories that Ramzi Yousef was an Iraqi agent and Iraq was behind the
                1993 attack on the World Trade Center.    The next day, Wolfowitz renewed the
                argument, writing to Rumsfeld about the interest of Yousef 's co-conspirator in the
                1995 Manila air plot in crashing an explosives-laden plane into CIA headquarters,
                and about information from a foreign government regarding Iraqis' involvement in the
                attempted hijacking of a Gulf Air flight. Given this background, he wondered why so
                little thought had been devoted to the danger of suicide pilots, seeing a "failure
                of imagination" and a mind-set that dismissed possibilities.
            
            On September 19, Rumsfeld offered several thoughts for his commanders as they worked
                on their contingency plans. Though he emphasized the worldwide nature of the
                conflict, the references to specific enemies or regions named only the Taliban, al
                Qaeda, and Afghanistan.
            
            Shelton told us the administration reviewed all the Pentagon's war plans and
                challenged certain assumptions underlying them, as any prudent organization or
                leader should do.
            
            General Tommy Franks, the commanding general of Central Command, recalled receiving
                Rumsfeld's guidance that each regional commander should assess what these plans
                meant for his area of responsibility. He knew he would soon be striking the Taliban
                and al Qaeda in Afghanistan. But, he told us, he now wondered how that action was
                connected to what might need to be done in Somalia, Yemen, or Iraq.
            
            On September 20, President Bush met with British Prime Minister Tony Blair, and the
                two leaders discussed the global conflict ahead. When Blair asked about Iraq, the
                President replied that Iraq was not the immediate problem. Some members of his
                administration, he commented, had expressed a different view, but he was the one
                responsible for making the decisions.
            
            Franks told us that he was pushing independently to do more robust planning on
                military responses in Iraq during the summer before 9/11-a request President Bush
                denied, arguing that the time was not right. (CENTCOM also began dusting off plans
                for a full invasion of Iraq during this period, Franks said.) The CENTCOM commander
                told us he renewed his appeal for further military planning to respond to Iraqi
                moves shortly after 9/11, both because he personally felt that Iraq and al Qaeda
                might be engaged in some form of collusion and because he worried that Saddam might
                take advantage of the attacks to move against his internal enemies in the northern
                or southern parts of Iraq, where the United States was flying regular missions to
                enforce Iraqi no-fly zones. Franks said that President Bush again turned down the
                    request.
            
            Having issued directives to guide his administration's preparations for war, on
                Thursday, September 20, President Bush addressed the nation before a joint session
                of Congress." Tonight," he said, "we are a country awakened to danger." The President blamed al Qaeda for 9/11 and the 1998
                embassy bombings and, for the first time, declared that al Qaeda was "responsible
                for bombing the USS Cole." He reiterated the ultimatum
                that had already been conveyed privately." The Taliban must act, and act
                immediately," he said." They will hand over the terrorists, or they will share in
                their fate." The President added that America's quarrel
                was not with Islam: "The enemy of America is not our many Muslim friends; it is not
                our many Arab friends. Our enemy is a radical network of terrorists, and every
                government that supports them." Other regimes faced hard choices, he pointed out:
                "Every nation, in every region, now has a decision to make: Either you are with us,
                or you are with the terrorists."
            
            President Bush argued that the new war went beyond Bin Ladin." Our war on terror
                begins with al Qaeda, but it does not end there," he said." It will not end until
                every terrorist group of global reach has been found, stopped, and defeated." The
                President had a message for the Pentagon:"The hour is coming when America will act,
                and you will make us proud." He also had a message for those outside the United
                States." This is civilization's fight," he said. "We ask every nation to join
                    us."
            
            President Bush approved military plans to attack Afghanistan in meetings with Central
                Command's General Franks and other advisers on September 21 and October 2.
                Originally titled "Infinite Justice," the operation's code word was changed-to avoid
                the sensibilities of Muslims who associate the power of infinite justice with God
                alone-to the operational name still used for operations in Afghanistan:"Enduring
                    Freedom."
            
            The plan had four phases.
            
                In Phase One, the United States and its allies would move forces into the
                    region and arrange to operate from or over neighboring countries such as
                    Uzbekistan and Pakistan. This occurred in the weeks following 9/11, aided by
                    overwhelming international sympathy for the United States.
                In Phase Two, air strikes and Special Operations attacks would hit key al
                    Qaeda and Taliban targets. In an innovative joint effort, CIA and Special
                    Operations forces would be deployed to work together with each major Afghan
                    faction opposed to the Taliban. The Phase Two strikes and raids began on October
                    7. The basing arrangements contemplated for Phase One were substantially
                    secured-after arduous effort-by the end of that month.
                In Phase Three, the United States would carry out "decisive operations" using
                    all elements of national power, including ground troops, to topple the Taliban
                    regime and eliminate al Qaeda's sanctuary in Afghanistan. Mazar-e-Sharif, in
                    northern Afghanistan, fell to a coalition assault by Afghan and U.S. forces on
                    November 9. Four days later the Taliban had fled from Kabul. By early December,
                    all major cities had fallen to the coalition. On December 22, Hamid Karzai, a
                    Pashtun leader from Kandahar, was installed as the chairman of Afghanistan's
                    interim administration. Afghanistan had been liberated from the rule of the
                    Taliban.
            
            In December 2001, Afghan forces, with limited U.S. support, engaged al Qaeda elements
                in a cave complex called Tora Bora. In March 2002, the largest engagement of the war
                was fought, in the mountainous Shah-i-Kot area south of Gardez, against a large
                force of al Qaeda jihadists. The three-week battle was substantially successful, and
                almost all remaining al Qaeda forces took refuge in Pakistan's equally mountainous
                and lightly governed frontier provinces. As of July 2004, Bin Ladin and Zawahiri are
                still believed to be at large.
            
                In Phase Four, civilian and military operations turned to the indefinite task
                    of what the armed forces call "security and stability operations."
            
            Within about two months of the start of combat operations, several hundred CIA
                operatives and Special Forces soldiers, backed by the striking power of U.S.
                aircraft and a much larger infrastructure of intelligence and support efforts, had
                combined with Afghan militias and a small number of other coalition soldiers to
                destroy theTaliban regime and disrupt al Qaeda. They had killed or captured about a
                quarter of the enemy's known leaders. Mohammed Atef, al Qaeda's military commander
                and a principal figure in the 9/11 plot, had been killed by a U.S. air strike.
                According to a senior CIA officer who helped devise the overall strategy, the CIA
                provided intelligence, experience, cash, covert action capabilities, and entrée to
                tribal allies. In turn, the U.S. military offered combat expertise, firepower,
                logistics, and communications.
            
            With these initial victories won by the middle of 2002, the global conflict against
                Islamist terrorism became a different kind of struggle.
        
    




Zoot Suit
A style of suit worn by African Americans, Filipino Americans, and Mexican Americans during the 1930s and 1940s. In Chicano culture this style of dress is primarily associated with the pachucos of the 1940s. The fashion at that time was to wear very baggy pants with pegged legs, long jackets with high and sharp shoulder pads, thick-soled shoes, and long watch chains dangling from the belt. An addition to the whole style common to Chicanos was a particular haircut, long with a ducktail and a wide-brimmed hat.
The word zoot was known within the urban jazz culture of Harlem, and it meant something either exaggerated in performance or in style. Many African Americans wore an extravagant style of clothing, the baggy pegged pants and jackets with padded shoulders, that later became known as the zoot suit. In the novel Invisible Man by Ralph Ellison, he describes the zoot--suiters’ style, “walking slowly, their shoulders swaying, their legs swinging from their hips in trousers that ballooned upward from cuffs fitting snug about their ankles; their coats long and hip-tight with shoulders far too broad to be those of natural western men” (1947, 380). In the late-night jazz scenes of Harlem this style was “a killer-diller coat with a drape-shape, reat-pleats and shoulders padded like a lunatic’s cell” (380). Tyler makes the point that the zoot suit was an extremely symbolic costume, which gave the wearer the look of a child in adult clothing. The broad square shoulders gave a macho look to the youth, and the finger-tipped coat was made for fun and leisure. The long baggy pants were made for dancing, especially the jitterbug, and the wide Panama hats were another sign of adulthood. “The business of fun, dancing and dating were the key characteristics displayed by Zoot-Suiters. It was an escape from drudgery and futile labor to the bliss of free-wheeling movement in the city among youths in the new youth culture” (Tyler, 23). Prominent black entertainers wore the zoot suit, such as Cab Calloway, Sammy Davis Jr., and Duke Ellington. Ellington performed at the Orpheum in Los Angeles in 1941 and 1942 with a musical called Jump for Joy in which the performers wore zoot suits, also known as Gone with the Wind suits, after the style worn by Clark Gable in the movie by the same name.
Even though the zoot suit was worn by the young men of several different races and ethnicities, it is primarily identified with the pachucos of Los Angeles. Pachucos were mostly second-generation Mexicans, the sons of migrant laborers and working-class immigrants. Pachucos created their own subculture, an arrogant style of dressing, a bilingual secret argot, and for some individuals membership in petty criminal gangs. The zoot suit became a symbolic disguise that identified the zoot-suiter as neither a Mexican nor an American. It was not a bicultural or binational position, but rather a position between cultures, a “hanging in space” position. The overly confident, slow swagger of the pachuco, today exemplified by the cholo, made it appear in fact as if the zoot-suiter were walking on air.
During the summer of 1943 the attention of the whole country was on Los Angeles when gangs of sailors and zoot-suiters battled with each other in the streets of the city. It is unclear if this was a race riot or a riot of patriotic sailors who attacked, beat, and stripped young Mexican Americans whom they perceived to be unpatriotic zoot-suiters. Between the third and thirteenth of June zoot-suiters were open targets. Much has been written about these riots from both literary and historical perspectives.
During the late 1970s the zoot suit received wide recognition and popularity with the production of a successful play by Luis Valdez. In 1981 a film by the same name, Zoot Suit, was produced and directed by Luis Valdez, with performances by actors Daniel Valdez and Edward James Olmos.
See also Cholos; Pachucos
References Barker 1950; Cosgrove 1989; Ellison, 1947; Mazon 1984; Orona-Cordova 1992; Sanchez 1978; Stone 1990; Tyler 1994; Valdez 1992; Zoot Suit 1981
Zozobra
A giant, forty-foot effigy in the form of a puppet, which is burned during the annual Santa Fe Fiesta held in Santa Fe, New Mexico. The word Zozobra translates to “gloom” or “worry” or “anguished.” The Zozobra is ritualistically burned at the beginning of the fiesta, which symbolizes the end of destructiveness, gloom, and worry, setting the tone for a successful fiesta. The creation of Zozobra was introduced into the fiesta in 1926 by Will Shuster, who felt that the fiesta had become “dull and commercialized.” Throughout the years the image of Zozobra changed from a simple twenty-foot puppet to the elaborate forty-foot figure with animated eyes, arms, and mouth that he is today. In 1969 Shuster turned over the responsibility and copyright of Zozobra to the Kiwanis Club of Santa Fe. He is hung on a tall pole on a hill, outside the city, where the burning can be seen by the thousands of people who come to watch. The death of gloom is supposed to resurrect happiness.
In response to the tradition of the burning of Zozobra, a group of New Mexico Chicanos started a tradition of burning El Kookoóee, a figure known by many Chicanos as the bogeyman, during the Festival de Otoño.
See also El Kookoóee; Santa Fe Fiesta
References Cohen 1985; Grimes 1976; Weigle and White 1988





	
		
			HOWDY,
			WHAT'S BEEN GOING ON AMIGO. I HAVE NOT TALKED TO YOU IN A WHILE. GIVE
				YOU THE SCOPE OF WHATS BEEN GOING ON WITH ME. I LEFT OILSTATES BACK IN
				MARCH WITH ANOTHER COMPANY. DID A LOT OF TRAVELING AND THEY (OILSTATES)
				MADE ME A SWEET OFFER TO COME BACK. SO I AM BACK.
			WHO'S GETTING MARRIED? SOUNDS LIKE THIS IS GOING TO BE A GREAT BACHELOR
				PARTY. GIVE ME A CALL SOMETIME CELL: 713 991 - 5621.
			ROB
		
	

	
		
			
				Kim:
				I have completed the invoices for April, May and June and we owe
					Pasadena each month for a total of $3,615,910.62. I am waiting to hear
					back from Patti on May and June to make sure they are okay with her.
					Do you want me to pay Pasadena on Friday for these months or do you
					want me to hold off until I finish July and August? 
				Again, I do not have all of the information for July and August, so I
					cannot give you any numbers. If I go by what is currently in the
					system as a guide, Pasadena would owe Enron a little over $1 mil. I
					need to forecast the money today, so please let me know what you would
					like to do.
				FYI-I will be out of the office all next week.
				Megan
			
			
				Subject: RE: City of Pasadena
				Thanks you so much for working on these as fast as you have - there
					was a priority in getting them out. However, as you know, the less
					cash outlay that we have right now the better. Lets wait and try to
					offset the amount we owe them with what they owe us - so I say wait
					until you get July and August done.
				What do you think the time frame is on this? 
				And when would be the earliest that we would make the payment?
				 Thanks, Kim
			
			
				Subject: RE: City of Pasadena
				Patti is the one with the details, I'm just the deal maker and don't
					have access to any of the systems. All I know is what fixed priced
					baseload deals we have. I have no idea what flows. I hope Patti can
					help you soon.
				Let me know if you don't hear from her today.
				
			
			
				Subject: RE: City of Pasadena
				If I can get all of the information today, I can tell you this
					afternoon. It doesn't take long to create the calc sheets. I
					understand from Janine that you or Patti can provide me with the
					detail that I need. If necessary, I can come pick it up. I have sent
					Patti a list.
				For payment, we have to forecast the money two days out. So, if I
					know today, I can pay on Friday.
				Megan
			
			
				Subject: RE: City of Pasadena
				thats fine - we can't pay them anyway
			
		
	

  
  
    
      
        a brief History
        Prehistoric man in Asia Minor (now modern Turkey) or Greece
        could look out across the Aegean toward the horizon and see the faint
        silhouette of land. Their curiosity pushed them to build vessels that
        were strong enough to ford the open seas and reach these islands,
        marking the start of the long legacy of Mediterranean seafaring.
        Around 7000 b.c. , the Phoenicians set out from what is now
        Iran to explore their surroundings. They eventually reached the
        islands, and founded colonies on the islands in the northernmost part
        of the Aegean Sea. An important early material, obsidian, was
        discovered on the island of Milos. Obsidian is a hard, vitreous
        volcanic rock, which could be fashioned into tools for cutting and
        stabbing. The high quality of the seam on Milos ensured that the area
        remained popular with early travelers.
        The basic elements of life in the Aegean began to come
        together as early as 5000 b.c. , and were already in place by the late
        Bronze Age (c. 2700 b.c. ). The major changes were not to daily tasks
        and routines, but to the political power base, which changed regularly
        and not necessarily peacefully throughout the ages.
        Cycladic Culture
        At around 3500 b.c. , a sophisticated culture evolved in the
        Cyclades islands. The distinctive, sculpted marble figures of the era
        are now being reproduced in vast quantities as souvenirs. You will find
        original examples in the archaeological museums throughout the
        Cyclades, although one of the earliest examples is in the museum on
        Paros. The people farmed and fished; on the dawning of the Bronze Age
        in 2700 b.c. , they began to work with metals. The Cycladic culture was
        influenced by societies in the east, importing the pottery wheel from
        Mesopotamia. They also continued to trade in obsidian and the local
        marble.
        The Minoans and the Myceneans
        Farther south in Crete, the Minoan culture developed after
        2000 b.c. into the most significant of its age, spreading its influence
        throughout the region by trade and diplomacy. Santorini (Thira), the
        next major island north, was heavily influenced by Crete, and the
        settlements of Thira and Akrotiri thrived at this time. The magnificent
        frescoes and mosaics found at Akrotiri are in Athens at present, but
        the remains of the buildings at the site provide ample evidence of the
        sophistication of the culture here.
        Around 1500 b.c. , a massive volcanic eruption at Santorini
        destroyed not only Akrotiri — under feet of ash and pumice — but the
        whole Minoan civilization. Massive tidal waves swept over Crete, and
        other parts of the Mediterranean, smashing buildings and drowning many
        thousands of people.
        In the wake of this tremendous natural upheaval, the Aegean
        Islands next came under the influence of the Mycenaeans (at around 1300
        b.c. ), who had a base in the Peloponnese region of the Greek mainland.
        The Mycenaeans were an acquisitive race who came to conquer, not to
        trade. Their extensive military campaigns were later chronicled by
        Homer in his epic poems The Odyssey and The Iliad.
        The Rise of Athens
        The Dorians, who came overland from northern Europe,
        conquered the Mycenaeans. They were a barbaric race, and their custody
        of the area brought about a dark period during which the written word
        was forgotten and art disappeared. They held sway over islands off the
        northern Greek coast, but the Phoenicians kept control of the main sea
        routes; south of the area, trade continued as usual. At the same time,
        city-states began to grow in influence on the southern Greek mainland.
        Athens became the most powerful, heralding the start of the classical
        Greek period. However, Greece was not yet a country; each city-state
        was self-governing and autonomous.
        The new culture spread throughout the Mediterranean, helped
        by a huge increase in migration from the mainland to new settlements
        such as Carthage, a Greek city on the African coast of the
        Mediterranean. Culture and the arts flourished once again. Athletic
        prowess was admired and the Olympic games were constituted in 776 b.c.
        , to promote friendly competition. Homer wrote his epic works on Chios;
        and lyrical poetry was much admired, particularly the work of the poets
        Archilochos on Paros and Sappho on Lesvos.
        The preeminent islands of this era were Delos, a sacred
        island and center of religion ruled by Athens; Samos, ruled by the
        tyrant Polycrates; and Naxos, whose ruler Lygdamis undertook some major
        building projects. Archaeology shows that, during this time, societies
        lived mainly in coastal trading towns with little settlement
        inland.
        The Persian Wars
        As Athens rose in influence and power in the West, it was
        matched in the East by the rise of the Persian Empire. From a power
        base in Anatolia, the Persians overran the eastern Aegean Islands and
        set their sights on the Cyclades. In 490 b.c. , they captured sacred
        Delos and razed the settlements on Naxos. The island communities were
        undecided about which side to back for a time. Paros and Andros
        contributed to the Persian armory, while others supported Athens. The
        two superpowers finally clashed at the epic battles of Marathon and
        Salamis in 480 b.c. The Persians were defeated, and Athens duly
        punished the islands that had turned against it.
        Following its victory, Athens introduced the concept of a
        mutual protection alliance (a kind of NATO of the ancient world).
        Several islands and Greek city-states agreed to work together, and
        created a treasury to fund their plans, which was held on the island of
        Delos. The alliance became known as the Delian League. Although there
        were minor internal wrangles, the league controlled the Aegean and the
        greater Athenian Empire for most of the fifth century b.c. Later, in
        454 b.c. , the treasury was transferred to Athens and its deposits were
        used to finance the construction of many of the major buildings and
        temples of the Classical Age.
        In 431 b.c. , Athens began a war with its neighbor and
        league member Sparta. Although the islands saw little action, as the
        war went on they could see that Athens was slowly losing its power.
        Before the end of the war in 401 b.c. , many islands had already
        transferred their allegiance to the victors, who were led by Philip II
        of Macedon. He was followed in 336 b.c. by his son Alexander the Great,
        one of the most remarkable leaders in history. His rise to power
        ushered in the Hellenistic period.
        Hellenistic and Roman Periods
        When Alexander went on to conquer lands as far to the east
        as India, the Aegean became a crossroads for the long trading routes.
        Delos became one of the largest marketplaces in the empire. Following
        Alexander’s death, his lands were divided among his generals. Much of
        the Aegean came under the rule of the Ptolemies, along with Egypt.
        Cleopatra was a member of this famous ruling clan.
        Although in 88 b.c. , Mithradates made a swift and
        successful raid from the East across Asia Minor and the Aegean Islands,
        the next major power change brought influence from the West. The Greek
        Hellenistic Empire was gradually, and peacefully, absorbed into the
        Roman Empire.
        The Byzantine Empire and the Coming of Christianity
        The Romans ruled a pagan empire, but the Aegean had an
        important influence on the early development of Christianity. In a.d.  
        95, St. John arrived on Patmos, a small rocky island in the Dodecanese,
        as a political prisoner. It was here that he wrote what was to become
        the final book of the New Testament, the Book of Revelation. It wasn’t
        until a.d. 330, however, when the newly converted Emperor Constantine
        made Byzantium, renamed Constantinople, capital of his Eastern Empire
        that Christianity was assured of its dominant role in future Greek
        life.
        The Byzantine Empire had powerful and well-fortified
        cities, but the countryside and the outlying islands were ravaged by
        waves of invaders. In an attempt to counter a threat from the Saracen
        Muslims, a new potent religious force from the East, the Byzantine army
        forcefully enlisted the men of the islands. Disease took a further
        toll. By the time of the Crusades, many of the Aegean islands had been
        practically depopulated.
        As the Byzantine Empire weakened at the end of the first
        millennium, Crusader forces were sent from Western Europe to counter
        the Muslim forces and retake Jerusalem for the Christian faith.
        Unfortunately, their zeal was not matched by their discrimination. The
        crusaders swept through the l;and of Byzantium slaughtering Christians
        as well as Muslims, civilians as well as soldiers. Constantinople was
        taken by Crusader forces in 1204, and they stripped the city of manyof
        its finest treasures — which now grace the public buildings of
        Venice — although a large consignment of books and manuscripts was
        transferred to the monastery at Patmos before the city fell.
        While Byzantine land was being divided, there was no one in
        control of the seas, so pirates raided towns on many of the islands. To
        counter this, the populations moved from their homes on the coast and
        built settlements inland, out of sight of the raiding parties. This
        created a pattern seen today throughout the Aegean of a small port
        (skala) which serves an inland settlement or chora, making it easier to
        protect the island from attack.
        The minor Aegean Islands were taken by various powerful
        European noblemen, many of whom were Genoese or Venetian, such as Marco
        Sanudo on Naxos. The noblemen had free rein to create their own
        fiefdoms. The Venetians fortified their main towns — Naxos Town and
        Antiparos Town are wonderful examples of this — creating labyrinths of
        narrow alleys and cul-de-sacs that were designed to confuse and to
        demoralize invaders. The Genoese took control of the eastern Aegean
        Islands, which were considered the most valuable for agriculture and
        trade.
        After a final bloody defeat by the Muslims in 1309,
        Christian forces were forced from the Holy Land. The Knights of St.
        John, a holy military force, made their way to Rhodes and Kos in the
        Dodecanese. They began the process of building their strong citadels,
        and reinforcing the Christian faith on the islands. However, they had
        not seen the last of their Muslim foe. A force was gaining strength in
        the east to threaten their new bases.
        The Coming of the Ottoman Turks
        The Ottomans were roving invaders who came from the east,
        taking land in what is now Turkey. By the end of the 13th century, they
        began their first raids on the Aegean Islands. In 1453, they took
        Constantinople, and immediately made it their capital, renaming it
        Istanbul.
        They then set their sights on the islands of the Knights of
        St. John and, after an unsuccessful siege in 1480, they finally ejected
        the knights from the Dodecanese in 1522. In 1566, they wrested Chios
        from the Genoese, bolstering their hold on the eastern Aegean Islands,
        but the Cyclades remained in Venetian hands for another generation or
        more — Tinos was the last to fall in 1715. The Ottomans brought new
        influences to the islands that they controlled, forming a large empire
        that stretched around the eastern Mediterranean.
        Toward Greek Independence
        However, a movement was growing on the Greek peninsula
        against Ottoman rule and for an independent Greek state. In 1770,
        Russia came to aid the Greeks (defined by their Orthodox religion
        rather than by historical geographical boundaries), declaring war on
        the Ottoman Empire and occupying several Aegean islands until 1774.
        Graffiti written by Russian soldiers can be seen in the caves of
        Antiparos.
        Although this attempt was unsuccessful, the campaign for a
        Greek state continued into the 19th century and began to grow in
        strength. The Aegean Islands played their part. Lesvos, Chios, and
        Samos lay in the important shipping lanes, and patriots began
        disrupting Ottoman cargo traffic. In return, the Turks violently put
        down every insurrection, including the massacre on Chios, when 22,000
        people were slaughtered.
        The Ottoman Empire was weakening, however, and in 1821, the
        peoples of the Greek mainland achieved nationhood for the first time.
        The Cyclades and the Sporades island chains were also included in this
        new state. A new sense of identity enveloped Greek peoples throughout
        the Aegean, thus commencing a movement to expand Greece and unify the
        disparate Orthodox populations.
        The Twentieth Century
        A series of disastrous decisions at the beginning of the
        20th century began to sound a death knell for the Ottoman Empire. The
        Turks lost a short war with Italy, and were forced to relinquish the
        Dodecanese islands to the Italians. Greece took this opportunity to
        absorb the islands of the northern and eastern Aegean and to add
        Macedonia to its mainland territories.
        Following this debacle, the Ottomans then allied themselves
        to Germany in the World War I, losing more territory with the defeat of
        the Germans in that war. Greece was handed a strip of land along the
        western coast of Asia Minor, which for over 2,000 years had had a
        substantial Greek population. Greece moved in to administer the land,
        but a new influence upset any grand dreams of making this region a part
        of greater Greece.
        In 1923, Turkey broke away from the tired Ottoman rulers,
        and Kemal Ataturk rose to power on a wave of popular support. He
        promised a modern state for his people, but as the situation became
        volatile, civil strife broke out in Turkish cities, and those
        considered Greek were victims of threats and violence. Many had to
        leave their birthplaces, fleeing to Lesvos, Chios, and Samos, the
        Greek-ruled islands just offshore. Thousands of people arrived with
        little more than the clothes they wore, putting great strain on the
        resources of the islands. Finally, Greece was ousted from its new
        territory in Asia Minor, which became part of the new Turkish
        state.
        Greece attempted to stay out of World War II, but Mussolini
        saw Greece as an ideal addition to his Italian empire. His forces made
        a series of attacks from their bases in the Dodecanese islands,
        including sinking a Greek naval vessel in the harbor of Tinos Town, but
        they only succeeded in strengthening the resolve of the population
        against them. Later the Germans came in force and occupied many of the
        islands.
        After the war, in 1949, the Dodecanese islands finally
        became part of the Greek nation. But the country was politically
        fragmented, with arguments between monarchists and republicans, right
        and left, and tension escalated into civil war. The struggle bypassed
        most of the islands, although there was fierce fighting on Samos. Even
        after the fighting stopped more than a decade later, the country was
        not stable.
        At the same time, the massive growth in air and road
        transport saw shipping decline in importance. The Aegean Islands, which
        for centuries had been important ports on the trading routes, became
        the backwaters of this new transport network and the economies of
        several islands came close to collapse.
        In 1967, the military took the reins of power in Athens,
        and until 1974, the “Colonels” held sway with a repressive and brutal
        regime. Many Greek islanders chose to leave rather than live in poverty
        and terror, and many made new homes in the United States and Australia.
        The expansion of air travel began the age of mass tourism, and Greece
        along with the Aegean Islands became exciting destinations for northern
        Europeans escaping their damp, cool summers.
        In 1982, Greece joined the European Common Market (now the
        European Union). Since this time, membership has been of great monetary
        benefit to the country. The EU has given large subsidies to develop
        Greece’s infrastructure and grants to excavate and protect its ancient
        monuments.
        Airfields have been constructed on a number of the islands,
        and road systems have been expanded and im proved. Private investment
        has even made an increasingly modern ferry fleet possible.
        Politically, the 1990s have been relatively quite times for
        the islands, although the divorce of Greek prime minister Andreas
        Papandreou and his subsequent marriage to a much younger woman caused
        consternation within conservative Greek society.
        As the Balkans flared to war once again, Greek nationalism
        has stirred, and there have been discussions in the kafeneion about the
        land of Macedonia returning to the fold of its forefathers. Whether
        this will ever happen remains to be seen, but perhaps the aid offered
        by Greece to Turkey after 1999’s devastating earthquake is a sign that
        the animosity between these two traditional enemies is beginning to
        diminish.
      
    
  

  
  
    
      
        A Brief History
        Jerusalem’s recorded history begins with its mention in
        Egyptian court records 4,000 years ago, but there had been human
        settlements here for centuries, probably millennia, before that. At the
        beginning of the second millennium b.c. , Jerusalem was a Canaanite
        mountain stronghold on a secondary trade route, far less important than
        biblical cities such as Hazor, Megiddo, Beth Shean, and Shechem. The
        earliest name associated with the city, Ur usalim, perhaps meant “city
        of Shalim” or “founded by Shalim. ” Scholars speculate that Shalim
        might have been an ancient Semitic deity of peace, for the name
        resembles the modern Hebrew and Arabic words for “peace”: shalom and
        salaam, respectively. If true, this is an ironic name for a city that
        would become one of the most constantly and bitterly embattled places
        on the face of the earth.
        Biblical Jerusalem
        In the Bible, Genesis 14:18–20 records that Abraham visited
        the city of “Salem” in approximately 1800 b.c. and was blessed by the
        city’s ruler, Melchzedik, who offered him bread and wine. The city is
        not mentioned again in the Bible until the time of the great poet
        warrior, King David, who captured the city from the Jebusites in about
        1000 b.c. The Bible describes how David’s soldiers conquered Jerusalem
        by discovering a water tunnel under the walls and using it to take the
        city by surprise. Warren’s Shaft, part of a Canaanite water system
        discovered by 19th-century archaeologists and open to visitors, might
        be the very tunnel infiltrated by David’s army.
        Perhaps because Jerusalem was in neutral territory not
        allotted to any of the twelve rival tribes of Israel, David made it the
        capital of his newly formed kingdom and brought the most talented
        artisans, dedicated priests, magical poets and musicians, and the most
        formidable soldiers from each of the tribes to live in his city. He
        also brought the Ark of the Covenant, the portable tabernacle
        containing the Tablets of the Law received on Mount Sinai, to the
        Spring of Gihon, just outside the walls of Jerusalem. There the Ark
        rested until it was placed in the Temple, built in approximately 960
        b.c. on Mt. Moriah, the high point at the northern end of the city.
        The Temple (today known as the “First” Temple) was completed
        by David’s son and successor, King Solomon. According to biblical
        tradition, although David bought the land for the Temple and carefully
        assembled its building materials, he was deemed unworthy of
        constructing the Temple because he was a man of war with blood on his
        hands. At the Temple’s dedication, Solomon addressed his God: “... the
        Heavens, even the Heaven of the Heavens, cannot contain Thee; how much
        less this House that I have built? ”
        The site of the Temple eventually became identified as Mt.
        Moriah, on which it stood, where Abraham was called to sacrifice his
        son Isaac. Along with this splendid house of worship, Solomon built a
        royal palace, mansions for his wives, temples for the foreign gods
        worshipped by the princesses he had married, and towers for the defense
        of the capital. Under the wise reign of Solomon, the city flourished as
        the capital of an empire that stretched from Damascus to the Red Sea
        and controlled the trade routes from Egypt to Phoenicia. The Temple and
        royal palace were adorned with gold and ivory from Africa and with
        cedar from Lebanon; the beauties and glories of Jerusalem under Solomon
        have captivated readers of the Bible for almost 3,000 years. But with
        his death the empire collapsed, and the Israelite kingdom was divided
        into two separate, impoverished, often warring nations: Israel, with
        its capital at Shechem in the north, ruled by a series of northern
        dynasties; and the smaller kingdom of Judah, with its capital at
        Jerusalem, from which the Davidic dynasty continued to rule. The Bible
        tells us that the cruelty and impiety of the rulers of both kingdoms
        aroused the fury of the great Prophets.
        In 701 b.c. the Assyrian armies of Sennacherib destroyed
        Israel and moved southward to besiege Jerusalem. Thanks to King
        Hezekiah’s hidden water tunnel, the city narrowly escaped destruction.
        The end of David’s dynasty came in 587 b.c. , when Nebuchadnezzar, King
        of Babylon, invaded Judah to lay siege to Jerusalem. When it fell, the
        Temple and all the buildings were burned. The people of the
        once-glorious city were forced into an exile known as “the Babylonian
        Captivity. ”
        In time, the kingdom of Babylon was overthrown and the
        Israelites were permitted to return to Jerusalem in 539 b.c. The city
        was now under the more tolerant rule of the Persians, but rebuilding
        was slow work. The Second Temple was finished in 515 b.c. , but much of
        the city still lay in ruins.
        Jerusalem submitted peaceably to the rule of the Greeks in
        332 b.c. under Alexander the Great and, subsequently, to his
        Hellenistic successors as well as the Egyptian Ptolomeys and the Syrian
        Seleucids. When Seleucid rulers outlawed Judaism, Jews led by Judah
        Maccabee and his brothers staged a revolution in 167 b.c. and, against
        all odds, restored the primacy of Jewish religious life in Jerusalem.
        The Macabbees cleansed the Temple of Hellenistic idols and the blood of
        pagan sacrifices; the eight-day celebration of Hanukkah (Feast of
        Dedication) commemorates their victory. The Hasmonean dynasty,
        descendants of the Maccabee family, ruled an independent Jewish
        Commonwealth that stretched from the Negev to the Galilee. Jerusalem
        grew, surrounded with a formidable wall and defended by towers beside
        the Jaffa Gate. The Hasmoneans ruled until Pompey’s Roman legions
        arrived in 63 b.c.
        Roman Jerusalem
        After the initial years of Roman administration and
        political infighting, Rome installed Herod (scion of a family from
        Idumea, a Jewish kingdom in the desert) as King of Judea. He reigned
        from 37 to 4 b.c. , during which time he fortified the Hasmonean wall
        and rebuilt the defense towers beside Jaffa Gate, the foundation of
        which still stand. Several palaces were built and a water system
        installed. Herod also completely rebuilt the Temple, making it one of
        the most important religious centers in the Roman Empire. The courtyard
        around the Temple was expanded to accommodate hundreds of thousands of
        pilgrims, and the Temple Mount was shored up by retaining walls made
        with great stone blocks. One of these walls, the Western Wall, is today
        a major reminder of Jerusalem’s greatness under Herod. A massive
        fortress was built overlooking the Temple Mount, which Herod named
        “Antonia” in honor of his Roman friend and benefactor, Mark Antony.
        For all his accomplishments, Herod was nevertheless hated
        by his subjects; he taxed, he tortured, and he ordered the massacre of
        male Jewish infants in an attempt to do away with the heralded Messiah.
        When Jesus was born in about 4 b.c. , Joseph and Mary escaped Herod’s
        paranoia by fleeing into Egypt with the new-born infant. They returned
        to live in the Galilee village of Nazareth, making pilgrimages to
        Jerusalem.
        According to biblical accounts, Jesus spent his life
        ministering in the Galilee Valley. In about a.d. 30 he and his
        followers went for Passover to Jerusalem, which was in unrest at this
        time, dissatisfied with Roman domination. Jesus’s entry into the Temple
        caused a commotion; after the Passover dinner he was arrested by the
        temple priests, who were under direct Roman rule. Jesus was put on
        trial quickly and condemned to crucifixion, a Roman form of execution
        for political and religious dissidents as well as for common criminals.
        In a province rife with rebellion and retaliation, the execution in
        Jerusalem of yet another religious leader from the Galilee did not by
        itself have an immediate effect on history.
        After Jesus’s crucifixion, harsh Roman rule continued until
        a.d. 66, when the Jews rebelled. For four years Jewish zealots fought
        against the might of Rome. At the end, the Roman general Titus laid
        siege to Jerusalem in a.d. 70, finally attacking its starved and
        weakened defenders. Those who didn’t escape were executed or sold into
        slavery. The Holy City and the Temple were destroyed. The last of the
        zealots held out for another three years at Masada (see page 76). Half
        a million civilians died in the Galilee and Judea as a result of this
        first revolt against Rome, a number unequaled in ancient warfare.
        Christian and Islamic Jerusalem
        For 60 years Jerusalem lay in ruins, until the Roman
        Emperor Hadrian ordered the city rebuilt as a Roman town dedicated to
        Jupiter. In outrage, the Jews began a second revolt against Rome, led
        by Simon bar Kochba. The ruins of Jerusalem were briefly liberated,
        but, in the end, Jewish resistance to Rome was defeated with great loss
        of life. The planned new Roman city, Aelia Capitolina, was built over
        the ruins of Herodian Jerusalem, and Jews were barred from residing
        there for all time. Jerusalem’s physical existence as a spiritual city
        seemed finished, but its spiritual power for Jews, and for the
        struggling new Christian religion, remained. For the next two centuries
        Aelia Capitolina enjoyed an innocuous history.
        But the Roman Empire became Christian in the fourth
        century, and Jerusalem became a center of religion once again. Queen
        Helena, a devout Christian and the mother of Emperor Constantine the
        Great, made a pilgrimage to the Holy Land in 326 to identify the sites
        associated with Jesus’s life. She found that the city’s most beautiful
        Roman temple, dedicated to the goddess Aphrodite, stood on the site of
        the crucifixion. The temple was demolished and a vast, Classical-style
        church was built around Golgotha (the hill where Jesus’s crucifixion
        was believed to have taken place). Throughout Jerusalem, other spots
        important to Jesus’s life were commemorated with religious structures.
        Pilgrims came from all over the Roman (and, later, Byzantine) Empire
        during the following centuries, but the prosperity they brought lasted
        only until 614, when Persian armies overtook Judea and reduced
        Jerusalem to rubble again. In 629, Jerusalem was recaptured by the
        Byzantines.
        Still reeling from the effects of the Persian devastation,
        Jerusalem was conquered in 638 by the forces of Islam. The Temple Mount
        was identified in Islamic tradition as “the farthest spot” (in Arabic,
        el-aksa), the site to which the Prophet Muhammad was transported in one
        night from Mecca on a winged horse, as described in the 17th chapter of
        the Koran. From here the Prophet ascended to the heavens and was
        permitted to glimpse paradise. The rock on the Temple Mount from which
        he ascended, at or close to the site of the ruined Temple, was
        commemorated by the construction of the Dome of the Rock in 691. The
        Dome of the Rock remains Jerusalem’s most striking monument; it is
        counted among the most beautiful buildings ever created. By about 715,
        the El-Aksa Mosque, third holiest place of prayer in Islam (after Mecca
        and Medina), had been built on the southern side of the Temple Mount.
        Jerusalem continued under Islamic rule for the next four and a half
        centuries. In 1099, under their leaders Godfrey de Bouillon and
        Tancred, the Crusaders captured the Holy City for Christendom by
        slaughtering both Muslims and Jews.
        Crusaders, Mamelukes, and Turks
        The Crusaders established a feudal Christian state with
        Godfrey at its head. They built many impressive churches during the
        term of the first Latin Kingdom of Jerusalem, but in 1187 they were
        driven out by Muslim forces under the great warrior Saladin. During the
        Sixth Crusade (1228– 1229), the Holy Roman Emperor Frederick II managed
        to secure Jerusalem for the Christians by negotiation.
        The Christians, however, could not hold the city. After
        they lost Jerusalem, a Mongol invasion swept through, and in 1244 the
        Mameluke dynasty of Egypt took control, ruling Jerusalem for the next
        250 years. The city struggled to rebuild from Crusader wars and
        invasions. Much of the best Islamic architecture in the city was
        constructed in the Mameluke era, but the past thousand years had taken
        their toll: Jerusalem was unable to regain the prosperity it had
        enjoyed in earlier times.
        In the early 16th century, the Ottoman Turkish Empire was
        advancing through the Middle East. Jerusalem fell to the Ottomans in
        1517, remaining under their control for 400 years. Suleiman the
        Magnificent rebuilt the walls and gates in the form they retain to this
        day. Fountains, inns, religious schools, and barracks were constructed.
        But when Suleiman died, his empire, including Jerusalem, began a long
        period of decline. The Holy City remained a backwater until the 19th
        century, when renewed interest among Christian pilgrims made it the
        destination of thousands of travelers each year.
        19th-Century Aspirations
        At the same time, many Jews sought religious freedom and
        fulfillment by moving to Palestine (as the Holy Land was traditionally
        called) and especially to Jerusalem. In the 1890s, Theodor Herzl
        (1860–1904) worked to organize a movement, Zionism, to create a Jewish
        state. Chaim Weizmann (1874–1952), a scientist born in Russia but later
        a British subject, did much to put Herzl’s hopes into practice.
        Weizmann was an important figure in the negotiations with the British
        government that led to the Balfour Declaration of 1917, supporting the
        idea of a Jewish “national home” in Palestine that also respected the
        rights of existing non-Jewish people already living there. The problem
        was that British strategists, who were fighting the Ottoman Turks in
        1917, had secretly promised the lands to their World War I Arab
        allies.
        In 1922 the League of Nations granted the British a mandate
        to administer Palestine. Jerusalem flourished during the early years of
        the Mandate. Modern neighborhoods, hospitals, schools, and the Hebrew
        University were built in West Jerusalem, the new Jewish enclave. But
        Arab opposition to new Jewish immigration and construction in Palestine
        led to increasing strife; by 1946, Jerusalem was an armed camp. In 1947
        the United Nations voted for the partition of Palestine into two
        states, one Jewish and one Arab, with Jerusalem as an international
        city that belonged to neither. But lacking the means to enforce its
        decision, the United Nations was powerless to halt the fighting that
        erupted as the British withdrew their troops in 1948.
        Modern Israel
        The State of Israel was declared during this difficult
        time. In response, member states of the Arab League sent troops to help
        the Palestinian Arabs. West Jerusalem, separated from the rest of the
        new Jewish nation, held out under siege for several months until
        Israeli forces secured a land corridor connecting the city to the
        coastal areas. Jews were evacuated from the Old City’s Jewish Quarter,
        and thousands of Arab families fled their homes in West Jerusalem. As a
        result of armistice agreements in 1949, Jerusalem was divided: West
        Jerusalem was to be under Israeli control, and East Jerusalem
        (including the Old City, with its Jewish, Muslim, Christian, and
        Armenian quarters) came under Jordanian authority. Free access to holy
        sites for members of all religions was guaranteed by the armistice
        agreements. However, with the city partitioned by fortifications and
        barbed wire, no Israeli or Jewish pilgrims were allowed to visit the
        Western Wall or other Jewish sites in East Jerusalem.
        For the next 19 years, Jerusalem was two cities. Political
        and religious boundaries were aggravated by occasional incidents of
        terrorism or sniping until the Six Day War in June 1967. Within three
        days the city was completely in Israeli hands, and in two weeks it was
        physically and administratively reunited. Jerusalem’s mayor, Teddy
        Kollek, spent the next 25 years orchestrating a vast program of
        development, adding new cultural institutions and parks and instituting
        neighborhood restoration projects while tirelessly me diating the
        concerns of Jerusalem’s many communities.
        Today, as always, Jerusalem is a city of controversies:
        religious Jews in conflict with secular Jews; Palestinians calling for
        independence; many residents protesting a wave of high-rise development
        that many claim will turn the Holy City into a holy megalopolis. But
        the ideas and mystique that have always made this an extraordinarily
        special place rise above the ebbing and flowing concerns of present-day
        Jerusalem as it continues to tug at the world’s attention into the new
        millennium.
      
    
  
Tara stood stock-still, waiting for the first tiny gleam from the scout craft to
appear in the darkness of the wormhole. The gentle constant breeze of recycled
air from the vent above blew an annoying hair against her nose, but she ignored
it.

A gasp from the psychic broke her silent vigil, and she turned.

"Results, Harmon?" she suppressed the surge of annoyance that ran through her as
she contemplated the psi's gift of getting all the hot news first.

Harmon's face slowly animated - joy sweeping in to replace stern concentration.
"Tarrin says the planet's a freaking gemstone! Thriving with life, large and
small forms, no buildings of any kind, hydrocarbons, metals, and a stable
atmosphere. He's not even bringing them back through for a face to face
briefing. He says we should come through now, immediately, before the probe is
reported late."

"Harmon, tell that good for nothing son of a beta to get his hindquarters
through the gate and back here NOW, or I'll open fire on him when we come back
through." Tara fumed. Of all the impertinence! Tarrin, no doubt with orders from
Mason, was questioning her command decisions. That's what I get for not using
mercenaries.

She returned to her watch, regarding her own reflection in the long window.
Mahogany-black curly hair, cut short in the typical military style framed a
careworn, dark-skinned face. It was not an attractive face right now; her ebony
eyes shadowed by hours on the watch, full lips pursed with frustration. She had
the look of every leader she had ever known. At six foot two, she stood a full
head taller than even her Arrallin first officer. Her glowering expression
completed the imposing effect. She picked imaginary flecks off her stark gray
jumpsuit, and snorted. You look like hell, Tar. Don't blow this. Don't let
fatigue get to you.

She used the discretion of the mirrored window to secretively survey her crew.
Harmon was an excellent addition to the bridge team, but was she open minded
enough to defy United Earth Command and sever all ties from Earth? She watched
the psi bob her head, unaware of the rest of the bridge, shaking blonde curls as
she chattered away with the approaching psi relay on Mason's ship. She seemed so
depthless - self conscious and shallow on the outside, but having that
incredible gift. There had to be more to her.

Well, if she didn't pan out, she'd be terminated. Any crew member that would
jeopardize the project was meat. It would be a shame to lose that talent,
though.

Rakal, her first officer, was staring pensively at his panel. He was what this
was all about. She watched his graceful fingers ending in thick black claws tap
out calculations on the panel. His pointed ears swiveled back and forth,
catching every sound from the bridge, while his long tail swished to the rhythm
of his thoughts. Only those of the Arrallin Insurrection inner team knew he was
no common 'beta furry'. His silken fur, which would be tawny golden and striped
with jet black bands, was dyed perfectly to a pure black, and his mane trimmed
and thinned as to be indistinguishable from the rest of his coat. His eyes had
been treated and darkened to a rich purple to disguise the brilliant golden
yellow color that would mark him as an Alpha Arrallin, and leader of his hive.
Right now, he looked like an overgrown wolf who'd learned touch-typing.

The scout ship re-emerged from the hole - a brilliant speck emerging from a
sphere of velvety blackness. It's hail crackled across the comm, and Tara spun
to retake her seat at the helm. "Launch the second probe. Won't Central be
crushed to learn that another gateway has yielded little more than a class F
planet and a white dwarf system. Level 1 and 2 staffers should prepare to be
briefed and move out. This sounds like it's the one." The distinctive whuffle of
pleasure rippled through the betas on the bridge, and Rakal let loose a small
growl, as if to caution his charges against false hope. They'd scouted
twenty-seven gates so far, and none had turned up anything worth the
Insurrection's time. Tara would not let giddy hopes drag them onto a rock that
would spell the end for the project, and the Arrallin species.

  
    
      
        
        There is a much-quoted saying, attributed to the epidemiologist Geoffrey Rose: “A large
        number of people exposed to a small risk may generate many more cases than a small number
        exposed to a very high risk.” This is true for many individual risk factors such as salt
        intake (linked to high blood pressure and cardiovascular disease) and speeding on the
        highway (linked to injuries and accidents). Does it apply to many other global health
        risks? The study by Anthony Rodgers and colleagues suggests that it does.
        To develop effective health policies, one must understand the existing health risks and
        disease burdens. On a worldwide scale, this is a tough challenge. The Global Burden of
        Disease Database, maintained by the World Health Organization (WHO), collects data from
        countries around the world on risk factors such as tobacco, malnutrition, childhood abuse,
        unsafe sex, childbirth, and cholesterol levels, as well as on disease burdens, for example
        depression, blindness, and diarrhea. A large group of scientists from all over the world
        has developed a framework to analyze these data. To compare different risks or burdens,
        they calculate disability-adjusted life-years, or DALYs—the number of healthy life years
        lost because of a particular disease or risk factor.
        Rodgers and colleagues used data from the WHO database for 26 risk factors and from 14
        epidemiological subregions of the world to calculate the proportion of
        risk-factor-attributable disease burden in different population subgroups defined by age,
        sex, and exposure level. For being underweight in childhood, for example—the leading risk
        factor for global loss of healthy life—they found that only 35% of the disease burden
        occurred in severely underweight children, the rest occurred in those only moderately
        underweight. The relative risks for the moderately underweight are much lower, but the
        number of children in that category is so large that the total attributable burden amounted
        to almost two-thirds of the total global burden of disease for that risk factor.
        The analysis confirms—and extends to a global level—previous research showing that many
        major health risks are important across the range of exposure levels, not just among
        individuals exposed to high levels of risk. It also points to risk factors that are
        particularly prevalent among specific populations and age groups, and for which highly
        targeted interventions could be effective.
        Despite numerous caveats and limitations of studies like this one, such analyses are
        essential aids in guiding the distribution of limited funds to lower the burden of life
        years lost to premature death and disability.
      
    
  

   
      
         
            Red Pants



            While writers whose business it is to be witty
often fail to produce, grave authors occasionally
are mirthful when laughter is farthest from their
minds.  From a lifetime of undisciplined reading with
innocent pencil in hand and malice prepense in mind,
I have gleaned a harvest of what I am pleased to denominate
Red Pants items, a sampling of which follows.
My designation derives from a splash of vivid
writing in Francis Thompson's  A Corymbus for Autumn
in which he proclaims how “day's dying dragon”
was


Panting red pants into the West.
            

            In this trousers category, Thompson must share the
limelight with Coleridge by virtue of the line in Kubla
Khan :


As if this earth in fast thick pants were breathing.
            

            Even Shelley may stake a claim, if only in the pajama
division of this sector, thanks to his description in
Epipsychidion of how


... the slow, silent night
Is measured by the pants of their calm sleep.
            

            Since everthing is to be found in Shakespeare, it is not
surprising that on at least two occasions the Board has
contributed his own Red Pants nuggets.  In Antony and
Cleopatra (Act IV, Scene VIII, lines 14 et seq .)  Antony
commands the wounded Scarus to


... leap thou, attire and all,
Through proof of harness to my heart, and there
Ride on the pants triumphing.
            

            And in Othello (Act II, Scene I, line 80) Cassio utters
the fervent prayer that Othello might

            Make love's quick pants in Desdemona's arms.

            A variation on this theme occurs in Alba de Céspedes'
The Secret (translated from the Italian by Isabel
Quigly: Simon and Schuster, New York, 1958, page
114) where she confides that “I still had a whole afternoon
before me to spend, and I used it to tidy up my
drawers....”  One may well wonder what Miss Stowe
had in mind when, in Uncle Tom's Cabin (Chapter 5),
she narrates how “Mrs. Shelby stood like one stricken.
Finally, turning to her toilet, she rested her face in her
hands, and gave a sort of groan.”  In this same vein, the
mirthless Milton adds his bit to the general hilarity of
nations when, in describing Mount Etna in Book I of
Paradise Lost (lines 236-7) he penned


And leave a singed bottom all involved
With stench and smoke: ...
            

            And in Chapter VI of Vanity Fair , when Blenkinsop,
the housekeeper, sought to console Amelia for Joe
Sedley's jilting of her dear Rebecca, Thackeray confides
(indelicately?)  that Amelia wept confidentially on
the housekeeper's shoulder “and relieved herself a good
deal.”

            Chuckles often emanate from the British employment
of a term in a sense at variance with American
usage.  There is that oft-quoted example, near the
opening of Trial by Jury , where Defendant asks, “Is
this the Court of the Exchequer?” and having been
assured that it was, Defendant (aside) commands himself
to “Be firm, be firm, my pecker.”  The British, of
course, do not giggle at this bit of Gilbertian dialogue,
since to them pecker means `courage,' as in the phrase
“to keep your pecker up.”  Two of the more common
examples of British-American divergence of usage are
screw and knock up .  In Vanity Fair (Chapter 39), the
niggardly Sir Pitt was not nearly the aerial acrobat
your American sophomore might fancy him to be
when he “screwed his tenants by letter.”  He was simply
making extortionate exactions upon his wretched lessees.
Similarly, when in Chapter XXXIV of the same
novel, Mrs. Bute reminds her husband that “You'd have
been screwed in goal, Bute, if I had not kept your
money,” she was not speaking of pleasures deferred.  In
Bleak House (Chapter XXVII) Grandfather
Smallweed, referring to Mr. George, warns Mr.
Tulkinghorn that “I have him periodically in a vice.  I'll
twist him, sir.  I'll screw him, sir.”  In Kipling's The
Light That Failed (Chapter XIII), Torpenhow urges
Dick to attend a party that night, “We shall be half
screwed before the morning,” is his dismal sales pitch
to Dick.

            In Chapter VI of Vanity Fair , Thackeray reports
on Joe Sedley's drunken avowal to wed Becky Sharp the
next morning, even if he had to “knock up the Archbishop
of Canterbury at Lambeth,” in order to have
him in readiness to perform the ceremony.  In Great
Expectations (Chapter VI), we learn how “... Mr.
Whopsle, being knocked up, was in such a very bad
temper.”  And who could blame him?

            Many a raucous snigger has been sniggered from
the pure-minded use of a word that suggests unmentionable
parts of the human body.  It does not take a
too-wicked mind to read into such terms meanings of a
lewd nature.  Who can, for instance, blame a youth
with but a mildly evil disposition from guffawing
when he reads in Pater's Marius The Epicurean (Chapter
V) a reference to Apuleius' The Golden Ass noting
that “all through the book, there is an unmistakably
real feeling for asses ...”?  In Scott's The Bride of
Lammermoor (Chapter VII), one reads about a boy
“cudgelling an ass,” and one goes back over the passage
to reassure himself that it does not contain a typographical
error for “cuddling.”

            One may be indulged a giggle even though he is
sure that Isak Dinesen did not intend an impropriety
when she recorded in Out of Africa (Part V, Chapter
4) how “Fathima's big white cock came strutting up
before me.”  And one is certain that Kenneth Rexroth,
in his American Poetry in the Twentieth Century
(Herder and Herder, N.Y., 1971) did not intend to hint
at closet biographical matter when, in Chapter I, he
wrote that “Whitman's poems are full of men doing
things together,” or, later in the same chapter, when he
referred to “Whitman's joyous workmen swinging their
tools in the open air.”  College freshman still read with
flendish glee the first line in Canto I of Spenser's The
Faerie Queene (and never mind the title!) that tells
how

            A Gentle Knight was pricking on the plaine.

            In his poem Mr Nixon (from Hugh Selwyn Mauberley ),
Ezra Pound's Mr. Nixon advises kindly

            Don't kick against the pricks,

            although the identities of the latter are not divulged.

            One is entitled to speculate on what outrageous
proposal the narrator had made in Proust's Remembrance
of Things Past, Vol. 2—Cities of the Plain
(translated by C. K. Scott Moncrieff—Modern Library,
N.Y., 1934, Page 90) to cause the Duchess to say,
“Apart from your balls, can't I be of any use to you?”
There is a famous letter penned by Rupert Brooke to
his friend, Edward Marsh, from somewhere near Fiji
(p. 463 of A Treasury of the World's Great Letters ,
Simon and Schuster, N.Y., 1940) in which he relates
how he sends his native boy up a palm tree, where he
“cuts off a couple of vast nuts ...” (macho victim not
disclosed).  In the first chapter of Uncle Tom's Cabin ,
Miss Stowe offers a dialogue between Haley and Mr.
Shelby, part of which goes, “ `Well,' said Haley, after
they had both silently picked their nuts for a season,
`what do you say?' ”  In Bleak House (Chapter XXIV)
Dickens may cause some readers to blush when he
wrote of Mr. George's blush that “He reddened a little
through his brown.”

            We must move ineluctably to a consideration of
perfectly reputable words which, having acquired sexual
connotations, cause adolescent—and often adult—
hilarity, even when read by a person of only mildly
prurient mind.  In Forster's A Passage to India (Chapter
XXXI) a vivid picture is created by the sentence
“Tangles like this still interrupted their intercourse.”
Pages later (Chapter XXXVII), it is acknowledged that
“He, too, felt that this was their last free intercourse.”
Apparently from then on, it was going to have to be
cash or credit card only.  In The Bride of Lammermoor
(Chapter V), we are informed that the heroine “placed
certain restrictions on their intercourse,” a limitation
that might have been more usefully set in that same
author's Rob Roy (Chapter VII) where we are told of
the chance that the narrator and Miss Vernon might be
“thrown into very close and frequent intercourse.”

            A variation of this theme is found in Robert
Browning's The Flight of the Duchess (Section V):


—Not he!  For in Paris they told the elf
Our rough North land was the Land of Lays,
            

            even though it is generally acknowledged that Paris is
número uno in this area of human activity.

            More picturesque are the references to erections.
An arresting one occurs in A Passage to India (Chapter
XXI) in which Forster describes a small building as “a
flimsy and frivolous erection,” while in The Mayor of
Casterbridge (Chapter XVI) the Mayor himself “beheld
the unattractive exterior of Farfrae's erection.”  A
phrase can paint an astonishing picture for the reader.

            Consider Dickens' sharp image in Bleak House (Chapter
LIV) when he describes how “Sir Leicester leans
back in his chair, and breathlessly ejaculates.... ”
Or, in Nicholas Nickleby (Chapter XLVII), where that
admirable novelist graphically portrays how old Arthur
Gride “again raised his hands, again chuckled,
and again ejaculated.”  And in his short tale, Lionizing ,
Edgar Allan Poe is quite candid in describing the reaction
of one of his characters: “ ` Admirable! ' he ejaculated,
thrown quite off his guard by the beauty of the
manoeuvre.”

            Alas for perfectly lovely words that acquire pejorative
meanings over the years!  Earlier in this century,
pansy became a derogatory epithet to describe an effete
male, thereby cheapening forever lines like Shelley's
noble image in Adonais (verse XXXIII):


His head was bound with pansies over-blown,
            

            not to mention Poe's odd allusion in For Annie :


With rue and the beautiful Puritan pansies.
            

            Or, more slap-stickish, E.F. Benson's action picture in
Lucia in London (Chapter 8): “Georgie stepped on a
beautiful pansy.”

            Of more recent vintage is gay .  Nobody used to
snicker at Chaucer's line (No. 5818) in The Prologe of
the Wyf of Bathe , in which that harried dame asks:


Why is my neghebores wif so gay?
            

            In his poem The Menagerie , one of William
Vaughan Moody's characters advises:


If nature made you so graceful, don't get gay,
            

            while in Othello (ah, the Bard again!)  in his dialogue
with Desdemona and Emilia on the praise of women,
Iago refers to the kind that


Never lack'd gold, and yet went never gay.

(Act II, Scene I, line 150)
            

            And what in the world is one to make of William
Butler Yeats's startling revelation in his poem Lapis
Lazuli (from Last Poems ) that


They know that Hamlet and Lear are gay.?
            

            Indeed it is an amusing, albeit utterly wasteful
pastime to pursue the quest for Red Pants examples.
May good cess befall all such quixotically misguided
readers!  One caveat: never assume blithely that an odd
word or suspicious phrase is as lubricious as it sounds.
In The Bride of Lammermoor (Chapter VI) Bucklaw
vows, “I will chop them off with my whinger,” and one
feels quite let down when he learns that a whinger is
but a whinyard, which is merely a short sword.
         
         
            
“Turning a corner of the Mazza Gallerie into a women's
tennis store, I was startled to see ... hordes of giggling high
school girls ... ” [From an article by Dorothy Gilliam in
the Washington Post , .  Submitted by .]
         
         
            LIGHT REFRACTIONS




            If you are a fan of old-fashioned jazz—what is now
known as “traditional” or “trad” jazz—you are familiar
with one of the standard “jump tunes” of the
genre—a tune most commonly called Muskrat Ramble .
Even if you are not a fan, you must have heard it
as least a dozen times.  It is the one that goes, “Dah!
Dah!  Dah!  Dah!  da-dat-dat-dah!  Da-de-da-de-da-de-dat-dat-dah
!  da-de-da-de-da-de-dat-dat-dah!”


That's it; sure; you've heard it.
            

            I think I first bought a recording of Muskrat Ramble
back in about 1940, when I was in my early teens.
My memory is rickety, but I am sure my first recording
was labeled MUSKRAT RAMBLE, and I think, though I
am less sure, that it was played by the late “Muggsy”
Spanier, who was, to my mind, one of the greatest of
jazz trumpeters.  Later, I got another recording of the
same tune, this one by, I think, Mezz Mezzrow.  The
label said, MUSKAT RAMBLE.  I thought that was surely
the first time I had ever seen such an obvious typographical
error in, of all things, a simple title on a
simple 78-rpm record.  (This, remember, was in my
youth, and it was a time when typographical errors
were called typographical errors, not typos—at least
by kids in junior high.)  Some time later, I got still
another version of MUSKRAT RAMBLE, with still another
version of the title.  This time, it was MUSCAT RAMBLE.
That, I thought, was really absurd.  Not only had they
left out the “R”; they'd changed the “K” to “C”.  Now, it
made no sense at all.  On the other hand, I reasoned, if
there were, in fact, some sort of cat called a muscat,
perhaps it wasn't so outrageous.  I looked up muscat in
my Webster's and found that it is a `variety of grape.'
To name a ramble after a variety of grape seemed to
me preposterous.  I was young and, by today's standards,
at least, pathetically innocent.

            During my time in senior high, and, after that, in
the Army Air Force, I had other things on my mind
(there was a war on, after all), and I didn't give
the MUSKRAT-MUSKAT-MUSCAT RAMBLE problem any
thought.

            Speaking of my time in the AAF, which was utterly
undistinguished, I think I must make a confession.
Now might be as good a time as any to reveal a
theft I committed at an Air Force Base near Seymour,
Indiana.  It was winter and bitterly cold.  The wind
used to sweep across that damned airfield with what
seemed an absolute determination to crystallize our
bodies.  One day when the wind chill factor was nearing
absolute zero, I took shelter in the service club.
There was the omnipresent phonograph, or Vic , short
for Victrola, and the stack of records next to it.  In
those days, people as a rule did not take much care of
phonograph records.  Usually the records were taken
from their jackets and loaded naked in stacks, where
they picked up dust, scratched one another, and
traded static electricity.  I was shuffling through a stack
of about fifty records, and I came across three Bessie
Smiths.  I played all three, and the few other G.I.s in
the room, which was quite large—big enough for a
fair-sized dance with a small orchestra—either paid
no attention or asked me to put on something by Glenn
Miller or Jimmy or Tommy Dorsey instead.  Among
Bessie's numbers were Dying Gambler's Blues, Sing
Sing Prison Blues , and one I had never heard called
Black Mountain Blues , which has the imcomparable
lines,


Home in Black Mountain a chile' will smack yo'
face;

Home in Black Mountain a chile' will smack yo'
face;

Babies cry for liquor an' all the birds sing bass.
            

            and


Goin' back to Black Mountain, me an' my razor
an' my gun;

Goin' back to Black Mountain, me an' my razor
an my gun;

Goin' cut him if he stan' still, goin' shoot him if he
run.
            

            I was, and still am, captivated by “Babies cry for
liquor an' the birds sing bass,” and in the arrogance of
my youth, I was certain that nobody else on the airfield
either knew or cared who Bessie Smith was, nor
would any other G.I. be enchanted by basso birds, so I
turned thief.  I can't remember how I did it, but somehow
I smuggled those records back to my barracks and
got them home intact on my next furlough.  I kept
them in good shape until my last 78-rpm turntable
died.

            End of digression and back to MUSKRAT-KAT-CAT:
Muskrat Ramble is credited to Edward “Kid” Ory and
Ray Gilbert.  “Kid” Ory played great jazz trombone.
The only thing I know about Gilbert is that I find him
listed as co-author of Muskrat Ramble .

            About thirty years ago, when I was concocting an
epicurean dish and saw that I had no sherry on hand, I
went to the liquor store and bought a bottle of muscatel
that was being sold for an absurdly low price and
that I thought might be exactly right for my sauce.  It
wasn't bad, The wine jogged my thoughts back to
Muscat Ramble .  Muscatel is made from muscat
grapes, is sometimes called muscat , and, being relatively
cheap and sweet and high in alcohol content, is
the booze of choice for a great many wines.  An old
college friend of mine who celebrated his twentieth
birthday—meaning twenty years of AA sobriety—a
couple of years ago, tells me that when he was on the
skids and riding the rails from drunk tank to drunk
tank, the favorite terms for muscat were muscadoodle
and Napa Valley smoke .

            I made up my mind that Muscat Ramble was
almost certainly the original name of the tune.  My
reasoning is that it is not likely that “Kid” Ory or Ray
Gilbert had ever seen a muskrat, and it's even less
likely that they or anyone else has ever seen a muskrat
doing anything that we would be likely to think of as
rambling.  Muskrats, according to my encyclopedia,
look like giant rats, are found in and around the
mudbanks bordering marshes and quiet ponds, have
partially webbed feet, and do a good deal of swimming.
They do not appear to do much rambling.  Muscat,
or muscatel, on the other hand, is found on skid
rows all over the land.  A guy with a bottle-shaped
brown paper bag, damp and wrinkled at its upper
end, has almost certainly been slugging down a sweet
wine of high proof, and the odds are pretty good you
would find it is a muscadoodle .  After the guy finishes
his Napa Valley smoke and has slept it off, he is looking
for the means to get another muscat fix.  Now he is on a
ramble with his hand out and a pleading look in his
roadmapped eyes.  I suspect that that is precisely the
song's origin.

            My theory is that the “r” got put in there simply
because muskrat is a more common word than muscat .
It is the same reason most of us, I assume, have heard,
“He's in the hospital with prostrate trouble.”  Prostrate
is a more common word that prostate , so prostrate is
what we get.  The “r” fits in naturally.  I got a strange
sort of corroboration from my good friend Rosy
McHargue, who is now pushing eighty-seven years and
has spent most of his life playing clarinet and sax with
some of the best jazzbands—Benny Goodman, Red
Nichols, Ted Weems, and a slew of others.  Rosy, too,
had seen the tune as Muskrat, Muskat , and Muscat .  I
asked him what he thought the original title was.  He
had known “Kid” Ory well, and he said, “You know,
Tom, I'm not exactly sure.  I once asked Ory about it
and he said, `It's m-u-s-c-a-t.  Muskrat .'  So I think that's
just the way everyone said muscat .”

            There you are.  I find a muskrat ramble difficult to
imagine visually.  I picture muskrats wallowing about
in the mire and paddling sluggishly through the water,
but I wouldn't call that rambling.  On the other hand,
a wino with an empty paper bag on a ramble to maintain
his muscat level—now that has a touch of poetry.
Maybe not in the same class with “all the birds sing
bass,” but poetry, nevertheless.
         
         

            As a nonexpert, although interested, subscriber to
VERBATIM, it is “a bit mysterious” to me that the singular
noun absence takes the plural verb are .  I refer to
the first sentence of your article about the Longman
Dictionary [XV,1].



         
         

            Helen W. Power, in “Women on Language;
Women in Language,” [XV,2] may bewail the insensitivity
of the male.  But she betrays her own elitist insensitivity
when she describes a flight attendant as “the
person who passes peanuts on an airplane.”  I hope
Ms./Miss/Mrs. Power never needs to draw on the considerable
first-aid and emergency training that every
attendant must master.



         
         
            Antipodean Newsletter



            Leonard Bloomfield, having begun with a theory
of meaning which emphasized the environment in
which objects were present and named, had to add the
obvious proviso that we sometimes mention what is
not present.  I have lately been reading accounts of the
exploration of the western and northwestern deserts of
Australia in the 1870s and I have become very aware of
the effect absent necessities might have on the frequency
of particular items in discourse.  In the desert
the missing necessity is water.  As the explorer Ernest
Giles put it, the explorer's experience is a “baptism
worse than that of fire—the baptism of no water.”

            My impression was that in the journals of desert
explorers the word water , alone or in compounds, and
words relating to water, were unusually frequent.  It is,
I suppose, likely that people with little money must
think of money more than the well-off do and that the
hungry will dwell on thoughts of food and the thirsty
on drink.  Here was a chance to quantify such things.  I
decided to make a count of words relating to water in
reports of desert exploration.

            Taking quite at random a single page (page 7) in
the journals of the Gregory brothers recording an early
(1846) exploration of country east and north of Perth, I
find the word water used fifteen times.  Ten pages on
(page 17), water occurs nine times but there are also
the related words stream (twice), well (twice), pool,
channel , and the circumlocution “essential element.”
Two words, dew and shower , refer in the context to the
presence of water; the rest are in contexts indicating its
absence.

            I tried another explorer, Ernest Giles.  Taking
page 17 again, I was reminded that Giles is rather
given to semi-serious poetic diction at times, and we
find him referring to the presence of water in the Finke
River as “the stream purling over its stony floor” or,
quoting some bygone poet, “brightly the brook through
the green leaflets, giddy with joyousness, dances
along.”  Perhaps present water called for some stylistic
celebration.  Two hundred pages further on there is less
exuberance in the circumlocution “that fluid so terribly
scarce in the region,” and in three other references
water is simply water .  Giles is not always waxing poetic
and may, like other explorers, be useful as a source
for the history of Australian and general English.  His
use of the word tank to refer to a hollowed-out reservoir
(“Gibson dug a small tank and the water soon
cleared”) antedates the OED , for instance.

            Since this linguistic-statistical study of an obsession
might well prove to be an important contribution
to psycholinguistics, I decided to make a larger sample
of watery words, choosing the straightforward journals
of Colonel Peter Egerton Warburton, who led an expedition
across the western interior of Australia in
1873-4.  In a randomly chosen sequence of ten pages
(151-60 of the published journal) there were twenty-eight
occurrences of the word water (eight of them in
compounds), no page being without at least one example.
In addition, there was a rich collection of words
relating to water, not necessarily indicating its presence.
“Hoping to find a lake” is included, though of
course it doesn't indicate the presence of water.  Even
words which are usually of more general reference are
brought into relation with water in a text like this.
Gum-trees or rocks (in areas of sand) appear as signs of
possible water.  Apart from these words and lake ,
words and phrases directly associated with thoughts of
water and reinforcing the sense of obsession include
pool, springs, drainage hole, clay hole, flood, channel,
water-courses, water-hole, rock-hole, drink, drinkable,
running water, stream , and native well .

            The last two items merit comment.  Stream is often
said not to be used in Australia except in metaphorical
ways, normally being replaced by creek .
Warburton's use: “sandbanks intercept the stream,
which finally splits into narow water-courses and
spreads itself over the plains, and so it ends as a creek”
suggests a somewhat more complex relation between
the two words.  British-born explorers did not set out to
write Australian English, of course.  Gregory uses
stream in the way normal in England; Giles consistently
refers to gens in the hills of central Australia,
though glen is not current (outside place-names) in
contemporary Australian English.

            The other name, native well is, as a later explorer
David Carnegie, author of Spinifex and Sand (1898),
points out, a misnomer.  He believes native wells are
essentially rock-holes (depressions in rock) buried in
fairly shallow sand, which, when hollowed out by the
natives, appear to be wells.  This sort of misnomer
leads Carnegie to suppose that “to the uninitiated no
map is so misleading as that of West Australia where
lakes are salt-bogs without surface water, springs seldom
run, and native `wells' are merely tiny holes in the
rock, yielding from 0 to 200 gallons.”

            Carnegie also describes namma-holes and soaks as
sources of water.  Soaks are shallow wells sunk near the
base of an outcrop to tap an underground reservoir.
Namma-holes have been variously described; to Carnegie
they are depressions on the surface of rocks, often
with a rounded bottom, where stones are often found,
suggesting that the stones have something to do with
the formation of the holes.

            Some nostalgic early Australians deplored the loss
in our speech of English country words, the glens and
streams (alive, anyway, in the journals of explorers),
coppices and brooks, woods, becks , and rivulets .  Perhaps
these words did not really fit.  We might have
done better with Arabic-speaking settlers.  Wadi , for
instance, would describe an inland creek rather well.
Be that as it may, a later Australian visitor to English
drizzle might feel nostalgic when thinking of the
parched and thirsty but water-obsessed vocabulary developed
in the drier areas of our sunburnt land.
         
         
            Favorite Grammatical Game: Puzzling Pronouns




            Here is a game just made to while away the hours
on a commuter train with your favorite author,
a perfect place to hunt for Puzzling Pronouns .

            
               Fowler lists five instances where a careless writer
can go wrong.  There is really no excuse, Fowler says
(not he says!), but here we give examples of his third
case only, where “there should not be two parties justifying
even a momentary doubt about which the pronoun
represents.”  And here the deluge of printed matter
abounds with such specimens that one would
suppose them to be the rule rather than the exceptions.
It is a game that is like fishing in a barrel, but more
stimulating mentally.  I am not picking on the following
authors; it is just a random catch.

            In Thomas Hardy's The Hand of Ethelberta , it is
suggested by Ethelberta that she and some others go to
see Milton's tomb in Cripplegate church.  Her suitor,
Neigh, who had proposed marriage in a previous
chapter, appears somewhat apprehensive at Ethelberta's
suggestion.  This apprehension is observed by a
Mr. Belmaine and mistaken by him for an indication
that Neigh has been dragged into going to the church
against his will “by his over-hasty wife.”  One wonders
whether the marriage had secretly taken place between
the consecutive chapters!  You see, it is
Belmaine's wife who was doing the dragging.

            Somerset Maugham was a good and careful grammarian
but now and then he slipped.  In The Letter , a
solicitor, Mr. Joyce, is approached by a Mr. Crosbie:


He spoke beautiful English, accenting each word
with precision, and Mr. Joyce had often wondered
at the extent of his vocabulary....
            

            Sometimes I wonder about the extent of my own vocabulary,
too, but really, not when I'm interviewing a
client.

            From The Once and Future King , by T. H.
White:


Naturally it was Lancelot who rescued her.  Sir Boss
had managed to find him at the abbey, during his
two days' absence, and now he came back in the
nick of time to fight Sir Mador for the queen.  Nobody
who knew him would have expected him to
do anything else, whether he had been sent away in
disgrace or not—but, as it was thought he had left
the country, his return did have a dramatic quality.
            

            Not to say a quality of confusion—pronoun-cedly so.

            From Oh What a Paradise it Seems , by John
Cheever:


The size of Chisholm's teeth, the thickness of his
glasses, his stoop and the spring with which he
walked all marked him, Sears thought, as a single-minded
reformer.  His marriage, Sears guessed,
would have been unsuccessful and his children
would have difficulty finding themselves.
            

            No wonder — we've lost them already.

            Mark Twain poses us a little mystery in Pudd'nhead
Wilson: which knife does the killing?  Quiet now.
Lights, action:


I was asleep, but Luigi was awake, and he thought
he detected a vague form nearing the bed.  He
slipped the knife out of the sheath and was ready,
and unembarrassed by hampering bedclothes, for
the weather was hot and we hadn't any.  Suddenly
that native rose at the bedside, and bent over me
with his right hand lifted and a dirk in it aimed at
my throat; but Luigi grabbed his wrist, pulled him
downward, and drove his own knife into the man's
neck.  That is the whole story.
            

            Well, was it Luigi's knife or the native's?  If we had only
that scene to go by we would never really know, and
all because of a Puzzling Pronoun —or two!


Oh, it can lead one to a rhymed couplet:

He loves his brother and his wife,
Does he live a double life?
            

            Give me my grammatical games any day to a crossword
puzzle.
         
         
            The Joys and Oys of Yiddish



            Rabbi Robert Schenkerman
            Temple Beth Jacob
            When Isaac Bashevis Singer was awarded the
Nobel Prize for Literature in 1978, he remarked
in his acceptance speech:


The high honor bestowed upon me is also a recognition
of the Yiddish language—a language of exile,
without a land, without frontiers, not supported
by any government, a language which
possesses no words for weapons, ammunition, military
exercises, war tactics.

There is a quiet humor in Yiddish and a gratitude
for every day of life, every crumb of success,
each encounter of love.  In a figurative way, Yiddish
is the wise and humble language of us all, the idiom
of a frightened and hopeful humanity.
            

            The word Yiddish derives from the German
judisch `Jewish.'  The principal parent of Yiddish is
High German, the form of German encountered by
Jewish settlers from northern France in the eleventh
century.  Yiddish is written in the characters of the
Hebrew alphabet and from right to left and enjoys
borrowing words from Russian, Polish, English, and
all the other languages and countries along the routes
that Jews have traveled during the past thousand years.
Journalist Charles Rappaport once quipped, “I speak
ten languages—all of them Yiddish.”

            Although Yiddish has been in danger of dying out
for hundreds of years, the language is spoken today by
millions of people throughout the world—Russia, Poland,
Rumania, France, England, Israel, Africa,
Latin America, New Zealand, Australia, Canada, and
the United States, where, like the bagel, it was leavened
on both coasts, in New York and Hollywood.  It is
spoken even in Transylvania: A beautiful girl awakens
in bed to find a vampire at her side.  Quickly she holds
up a cross. “Zie gernisht helfen,” smiles the vampire.
Translation: “It won't do you any good.”

            Most of us already speak a fair amount of Yiddish
(Yinglish) without fully realizing it.  Webster's Third
New International Dictionary lists about 500 Yiddish
words that have become part of our everyday conversations,
including:


cockamamy (or cockamamie) `mixed-up, ridiculous.'

fin slang for `five-dollar bill,' from finf, the Yiddish
word for `five.'

gun moll a double clipping of gonif's Molly, Yiddish
for `thief's girl.'

kibitzer `one who comments, often in the form of
unwanted advice, during a game, often cards.'

mavin `expert.'

mazuma `money.'

mish-mosh `mess.'

schlep to `drag or haul.'

schlock `shoddy, cheaply produced merchandise.'

schmeer the `entire deal,' the `whole package.'

schnoz slang for `nose.'

yenta `blabbermouth, gossip; woman of low
origins.'
            

            ... and so on through the whole megillah : `long,
involved story.'

            A number of poignant Yiddish words defy genuine
translation into English:


chutzpa `nerve; unmitigated gall;' a quality we
admire within ourselves, but never in others.  In
his delightful study, The Joys of Yiddish (McGraw-Hill
1968), Leo Rosten offers two classic
definitions.  “Chutzpa is that quality enshrined in
a man, who, having killed his mother and father,
throws himself on the mercy of the court because
he is an orphan.  A chutzpanik may be defined as
the man who shouts `Help!  Help!'  while beating
you up.”

mensch a `real authentic human being—a person.'
naches the `glow of pleasure-plus-pride that only
a child can give to its parents': “This is my son,
the Doctor!”

oy not so much a word as an entire vocabulary, as
Rosten observes: “can express any emotion, from
trivial delight to the blackest woe.”

oy vay; oy vay in mir literally, “Oh, pain,” but, in
its long or short form, can be used for anything
from condolence to lament:

On August 6, 1945, the world's first nuclear
weapon was dropped on Hiroshima, Japan.  Two
hundred and eighty-two thousand human beings
died and tens of thousands more were left
burned, maimed, and homeless.  [Albert] Einstein,
whose letter to Roosevelt had initiated the
American effort that resulted in the atom bomb
and whose special theory of relativity formed its
theoretical basis, heard the news on the radio.
For a long time he could only find two Yiddish
words traditionally used by Jews in such circumstances:
“Oi vey.”

—The Little, Brown Book of Anecdotes

tsuris the gamut of painful emotions—some real,
some imagined, some self-inflicted.
            

            Yiddish is especially versatile in describing those
poor souls who inhabit the world of the ineffectual,
and each is assigned a distinct place in the gallery of
pathetic types: schmo, schmendrik, schnook, schmegegge,
schlep, schlub, schmuck, putz, klutz, kvetch ,
and nudnik .  Yiddish easily coins new names for new
personalities: a nudnik is a `pest'; a phudnik is a `nudnik
with a Ph.D.'  The rich nuances that suffuse this
roll call are seen in the timeless distinction between a
schlemiel `clumsy jerk' and a schlimazel `habitual
loser': the schlemiel inevitably trips and spills his hot
soup—all over the schlimazel.  (And the nebbish is the
one who has to clean it up.)

            The Yiddish language, through its color, its target-accurate
expressions, its raw idioms, and its sayings
exudes a refreshing magic and laughter, mixed with
sober thought, that has been handed down from generation
to generation and from nation to nation.  Yiddish
never apologizes for what it is—the earthy, wise
soul of an expressive people learning that life is but a
mingled yarn, good and ill together.

            Which reminds us of the zaftig `buxom, well-rounded'
blonde who wore an enormous diamond to a
charity ball.  “It happens to be the third most famous
diamond in the whole world,” she boasted.  “The first is
the Hope diamond, then comes the Kohinoor, and then
comes this one, which is called the Lipschitz.”

            “What a stone!  How lucky you are!”

            “Wait, wait,” said the lady.  “Nothing in life is all
mazel [`good luck'].  Unfortunately, with this famous
Lipschitz diamond comes also the famous Lipschitz
curse.”

            The other women gasped and asked, “And what is
the famous Lipschitz curse?”

            “Lipschitz,” sighed the lady.
         
         
            The Women's History of the Word
            Those who are not familiar with feminist writings
may find it useful and interesting to consider a book,
recently published in Britain, that is typical of the
harsher brand of such works.  The work in question
offers nothing regarding language, so its review here is
ancillary to the main function of VERBATIM.  The feminist
movement is very much alive in Britain, and the
“Greenham Common Women” are probably largely
responsible for much of the national sentiment against
the Cruise missiles installed at an American base near
that village.  In Britain, as elsewhere, most books by
feminist writers are reviewed by women, usually feminists.
Men are seldom assigned to review them, possibly
because the editor fears that they will be either
ignorant of or unsympathetic to the issues raised, if not
biased against them, or because the editor is a woman.
Because writing an unfavorable review of a (bad) feminist
book would be tantamount to treachery, such
books are often unjustifiably praised, as was the case
with this work by Rosalind Miles, which was well received
on its publication in June.

            According to the blurb on the dust jacket of this
distinctly unpleasant book, Rosalind Miles is head of
the Centre for Women's Studies at Coventry Polytechnic,
a lecturer, broadcaster, journalist, and author of
several other books, including a “highly acclaimed”
biography of Ben Jonson.  One might like to believe
that this gives her the cachet of authoritative scholarship,
but the text does not bear out the promise.

            For the most part, the book consists of a rewriting
of history, from the dawn of time, with the purpose of
demonstrating two main themes: the “fact” that
women were responsible for all the important contributions
to the advancement of civilization (as the development
of agriculture, for instance), often despite
the arrogance and stupidity of men; and the “fact”
that women have long been subjected to domination
by men.  Miles suggests that such domination is a recent
phenomenon—only a couple of thousand years
old—for she points to the clear superiority of women
in (primitive) religions and matriarchies, right on
through to the Egyptian dynastic rulers.  At one point,
she gets so carried away with her thesis that she suggests
that females were responsible not only for all of
human evolutionary biology but for the very notion of
counting (in order to keep track of menstruation) and,
probably by the same token, astronomy.  She quotes
(and, presumably, accepts) another source which holds
that “woman first awakened in humankind the capacity
to recognize abstracts.”  If you believe that balderdash,
you'll believe anything.

            In the good old days, we were taught that the
pyramids were built by tens of thousands of slaves.
Recent speculation has it that they were not slaves
but—what would one call them? — ordinary laborers.
Here comes Miles, authoritatively quoting Diodorus,
the Greek historian, who recorded (60-30BC) that “innocent
women even swelled the ranks of pitiful slaves
whose forced labour built the pyramids:


... bound in fetters, they work continually
without being allowed any rest by night or day.
They have not a rag to cover their nakedness, and
neither the weakness of age nor women's infirmities
are any plea to excuse them, but they are driven by
blows until they drop dead.”  [p.49]
            

            As the pyramids were already about 2500 years old
when Diodorus wrote his World History , one is given
to wonder what his authority might have been for such
a vivid description.  It is even less comprehensible how
a modern researcher could accept it and have the effrontery
to promulgate it.  Miles's book is riddled with
many similar distortions, convenient omissions, and
generalizations:


... Women have always commanded over half
the sum total of human intelligence and creativity.
From the poet Sappho, who in the sixth century BC
was the first to use the lyric to write subjectively
and explore the range of female experience, to the
Chinese polymath Pan Chao (Ban Zhao), who
flourished around AD 100 as historian, poet, astronomer,
mathematician and educationalist, the range
is startling.  In every field, women too numerous to
list were involved in developing knowledge and
contributing to the welfare of their societies as they
did so: the Roman Fabiola established a hospital
where she worked both as nurse and doctor, becoming
the first known woman surgeon before she
died in AD 399.  [p.52]
            

            Earlier, on page 49, we learnt about Agnodice, “who
lived to become the world's first known woman gynaecologist,”
in the fourth century BC.  Clearly, this rosily
checkered past was soon to be replaced, chiefly, it
seems, as Judeo-Christian-Islamic-Confucian-Buddhist
cultures flourished.  It was not too bad early on,
when, according to Miles, the seven Maccabean martyrs
who “saved Judaism” did so only at the instigation
of their mother.  Miles continues:


In early Christianity likewise, women found not
merely a role, but an instrument of resistance to
male domination; in choosing to be a bride of
Christ they inevitably cocked a snook at lesser male
fry.  Thousands of young women helped to build
the church of God with their body, blood and
bones when frenzied fathers, husbands or fiancés
preferred to see them die by fire, sword or the
fangs of wild beasts rather than live to flout [sic]
the duty and destiny of womanhood.  [p.63]
            

            But the situation soon deteriorated:


Even St. Paul, later the unregenerate prophet of
female inferiority, was forced to acknowledge the
help he received from Lydia, the seller of purple
dyes in Philippi.  [ibid.]
            

            This rewriting of history is punctuated by an array
of four-letter invectives applied to males and by
adjectives like brilliant, unusual, inspiring , and so
forth to women.  Citing a Judaic law-book of the 16th
century which identified a woman for the days preceding,
during, and following her period as niddah
`impure,' Miles has the lack of taste to write the following:.


As a final stroke, in a grim foreshadowing of
what the future held in store for the Jews, the niddah
had to wear special clothing as a badge of her
separate and despised status.  [p.83]
            

            Here and there in this morass of misunderstanding,
Miles treads on solid ground if one can agree with
the eminent anthropologist Joseph Campbell.  Campbell,
known for his extensive analyses of the world's
mythologies, religions, and cultures, noted the marked
bias against women emerging from Judaic concepts,
later reinforced by Christian and Islamic doctrine.
Most of the religions of the world connected woman
with mother earth, fertility, and all the other
progenetic and nurturing associations, and this was
borne out in the cultures of the people.  According to
Campbell, the only godlike female figure in the Bible
is the Virgin Mary, and she appears, identified as virgin,
only in the Gospel according to Luke.  As Luke was
a Greek, Campbell suggested that Mary was a carryover
from the paganism of the ancient Greek pantheon.
Although this might help explain the Judeo-Christian-Muslim
tendencies to subjugate women,
treating them essentially as chattel, it does not account
for a similar treatment accorded them in other cultures,
notably that of Japan.  It is not entirely clear
whether Campbell was commenting on Hinduism,
Buddhism, etc. as they once existed, conceptually, for
it is unlikely that he could have ignored the treatment
of women in the modern reflexes of the cultures adhering
to those religous precepts.

            Campbell held that the ancient mythologies and
religions are allegorical and that there was no real
distinction between gods and goddesses, who were
given sexual identity when in human form only to
make them more meaningful.  With all respect, that
seems a highly debatable issue and one far too complex
for this discussion, though we can certainly trace a
diminution in the role of female divinities (or divinity)
when we come to examine Judaism and its congeners
and progeny.  Other debatable aspects are the questions
of whether the debasement of women is a reflection of
the theology or the ritual, whether the scripture of any
religion should be understood allegorically or literally,
and so forth.  If there is something wrong, it behooves
us to get at the roots of the problem, not to flail about
wildly, for only after the source of a disease has been
identified can one properly investigate its cure.

            “History according to Rosalind Miles” blasts away
at the symptoms in a misconceived notion that alleviating
them will effect a cure of the disease.  In this
jeremiad, males are viewed as the “enemy,” and are so
characterized throughout the book, which concludes
with exhortations to engage the foe and a strident call
to arms (though not men's).

            Laurence Urdang
         
         
            Archaeology & Language

            [A VERBATIM Book Club Selection.]

            Just when you thought it was safe to assume that
we now know all we are ever likely to know about the
past, someone digs another hole and unearths (literally
or figuratively) some ancient artifact: one day it is a
fragile scroll, found in a cave near the Dead Sea, that
turns out to be pre-Biblical; the next day it is an entire
terracotta army of Chinese soldiers: the next it is a
skull, excavated from the Olduvai Gorge, that compels
anthropologists (once again) to revise their guesses
about the earliest stages of Homo sapiens sapiens vs
hominids.  Most of the relies from the past are gone
forever, destroyed by the plows of countless generations
of farmers, reduced to rubble by erosion, by conquerors,
by prehistoric (and modern) urban developers, by
fire and flood, and just by time.  Many, we may hope,
have not yet been found.  The interest in man's forebears
did not become fashionable upon the publication,
a few years ago, of Roots : on a far larger scale,
we have been trying to discover all we can about the
origins not of men but of man.  Strange to say, however,
that interest does not seem to be more than a few
hundred years old: if the ancient Greeks and Romans,
the Indians, the Chinese and other peoples were curious
about their own prehistory, I have not heard of it.
Perhaps the fascination with man's past grew out of
the obsession with ruins evinced by Romanticism; certainly,
modern archaeology seems to have followed
close behind, for the excavation of the supposed site of
Troy took place only about 100 years ago.  Perhaps it is
just as well, for only by the means available to modern
science are we now able to preserve some of the artifacts
that we find and, through radiocarbon dating,
determine their approximate age.

            Archaeology is a popular pursuit, and its manifest
results not only receive considerable publicity but can
be seen in museums.  Not so paleolinguistics, or the
reconstruction of ancient languages.  Even the remnants
we have from early languages that had a writing
system are relatively sparse: Classical Latin and
Greek, Hebrew, and a few other languages are better
documented than others; but for most all we have to go
on are a handful of tablets here, a few inscriptions
there, barely enough in many cases to allow us to
identify the language, let alone draw any conclusions
regarding its structure or meaning.  Perhaps one day
we shall find an Etruscan library, buried deep in the
Italian countryside; but for the present, we have to
make do with what we have, which is precious little.
About languages that had no writing system, we know
nothing at all.  But some very clever comparative linguists,
beginning in Germany in the 19th century, theorized
about how the nature of the ancestors of the
more modern tongues.  In some instances, ancient languages
have been decoded, some from multilingual
inscriptions.  The work of Jean Francois Champollion
(1790-1832) in deciphering hieroglyphics from the Rosetta
Stone was an astonishing accomplishment, for it
enabled us to read the myriad writings of the ancient
Egyptians on papyrus and in wall inscriptions and
revealed an enormous amount of the knowledge we
have today about their civilization, which lasted for
about 2600 years.  Another significant break-through
was that of Michael Ventris (1922-1956), who deciphered
the Linear B script found on Crete and identified
it as an early form of Greek.  From the standpoint
of language, Ventris's work was more important, particularly
because it filled in a gap in our knowledge of
the early states of Indo-European languages.

            Many years ago, a linguistic scholar counted all of
the languages then spoken of which he had evidence.
The total was approximately 2800, but that is probably
only a vague estimate: he undoubtedly missed
some; some have sprung up since his time (modern
Hebrew, for instance); and some have vanished.  The
exact count is unimportant and, at best, spurious, for
it is extremely difficult to establish uniform criteria for
what distinguishes dialect from language.  Then, too,
one must examine the techniques used to group the
many languages of the world.

            Linguists examining Classical Greek, Latin, German,
English, Slavic, Swedish, Norwegian, Danish,
Dutch, Lithuanian, Iranian, Hindi, and the other languages
of India and Europe found that there were
correspondences among many of the common words.
Some, like French, Spanish, Italian, and Portuguese,
had more in common with one another than they did
with, say, German, English, Swedish, Danish, and
Dutch, which, in turn, bore only a remote resemblance
to Russian and Polish, on the one hand, and the
two extant varieties of, say, Gaelic, on the other.  One
rapidly runs out of hands and must resort to fingers
and toes, for after years of laboriously categorizing
these languages, the number of different main
branches (called families and subfamilies) came to
about ten.  Ingeniously, certain differences between
families were explained by various phonetic shifts that
(inexplicably) took place in one language group but
not in another.  Although certain other languages were
geographically nearby, it was impossible to establish
any resemblances between them, hence Basque, for
example, is not classified as being in the same family
with other European languages, nor are Hungarian
and Finnish, both of which belong to their own group.
At the conclusion of this vast exercise, done without
the aid of computers, there emerged a pattern of familial
relationships that linked together languages spoken,
in earlier times, from Britain as far east as Chinese
Turkestan and from India as far north as
Lappland.  Charts showing the chief languages and
their derivations can be found in many dictionaries—inside
the front cover of The Random House Unabridged ,
for example.  Because linguists are constantly
learning more and more about the relationships
among languages, it is best to avoid using an older
chart; for the same reason, it would be wise not to
stake too much on the accuracy of even a current
chart.

            The languages discussed here are what are usually
called the Indo-European family; similar family trees
could be drawn for the Semitic languages, Sino-Tibetan,
Japanese, Bantu, Malayo-Polynesian, and so on.
Each is a distinct phylum; although there may be
word-borrowing among them, lexicon is considered
less important in the classification of languages than
structure and grammar.  It is important, too, to note
that writing systems are irrelevant: for instance, Polish
is written (today) using the Roman alphabet, but Russian,
a related Slavic language, uses the Cyrillic; Yiddish,
a Germanic language, is written in Hebrew characters;
Latin, Greek, and Sanskrit, which resemble
one another rather closely in some respects, all use
different alphabets; and early examples, utterly unrecognizable
to untrained readers of modern languages,
were written in cuneiform, quite suitable for writing
on soft clay tablets with a pointed stylus, and hieroglyphics.

            
It would be nice to think that while linguists were
working so hard to organize languages, they were
working alongside the archaeologists who were providing
the raw materials.  But only rarely did they collaborate
and, with few exceptions, their work was not
correlated in a systematic way.  Schliemann, who discovered
the site of Troy, used the evidence in Homer's
Iliad to determine his digging site, where any ruins
had long since disappeared from view.  In many other
places, the ancient sites lay buried—and still
do—beneath modern cities: modern property owners
quite understandably take a dim view of tearing down
their buildings on the off chance that the remnants of
an ancient town will be found several yards below.
today, before a new building is erected in London, an
archaeological team examines the cleared site for its
archaeological significance.  But there, as everywhere
else, nothing can interfere with progress and, regardless
of the finds and their importance, the archaeologist
must eventually yield to the bulldozer.  Notwithstanding,
even the brief glimpses afforded by such
investigations can provide some insight into civilizations
that existed hundreds or, in some cases, thousands
of years earlier.

            Based on the sparse evidence available, linguists
theorized about the earlier languages that had given
rise to those attested.  In other words, based on what
they knew about a group of languages which were
documented, they tried to imagine the language that
they sprang from.  In most cases, they dealt with words
and functional elements, creating what are called reconstructions
in hypothetical family prototypes called,
variously, Proto-Latin, Proto-Greek, Proto-Germanic,
Proto-Indo-Iranian, and so forth, the ultimate goal
being to posit a single language called Proto-Indo-European.
That is not entirely true, for linguists know
too much about language to suggest that there ever
was, literally, a single language from which all Indo-European
languages descended.  Nonetheless, it is convenient
to think about the existence of a group of
proto-dialects which can be referred to as Proto-Indo-European.

            
It seems only natural that once an original language,
or Ursprache , was posited, the next step was to
speculate on its source, or Urheimat .  That is what
Renfrew has tried to do.  Essentially, he proposes that
the parent of all Indo-European languages was itself
born in central Anatolia, whence it spread eastward,
westward, and northward, being modified by the influences
of the languages with which it came into contact,
till it ultimately emerged in its recognizable,
modern manifestations which we categorize into Germanic,
Hellenic, Italic, Indo-Iranian, Anatolian, Armenian,
Celtic, Tocharian, Albanian, and BaltoSlavic.

            I have no quarrel with Renfrew's theory—notwithstanding
the generally received wisdom that has
placed the homeland north of the Black Sea region
and the Volga steppes.  It is difficult for the nonspecialist
reader (like me) to assess the validity of his arguments,
which are based on his contention that the
language (and its congeners) were carried along by the
spread of nomad pastoralism.  Using the evidence available,
Renfrew contends that the original Indo-European
language, closely related to Hittite, separated
after 6500 BC, with the IE languages of western Europe
developing from western Anatolia and those of
Iran, India, and Pakistan from the eastern division.
The choice between the prevailing theory and Renfrew's
depends on whether one accepts a “wave” theory,
first promulgated more than a hundred years ago
by Johnanes Schmidt, a German linguist, or one of
indigenous development.  Pottery finds can be interpreted
to support either the imposition of an elite culture
from Turkmenia or a late development of the
Indus civilization.  Renfrew accepts the wave theory,
and in the last two thirds of Archaeology & Language
he sets forth his arguments in its favor.  Unfortunately,
the presentation of his linguistic argument, where the
author is clearly treading on more speculative ground
than in those parts dealing with outright archaeology,
where he is on more familiar territory, is disorganized
and repetitious.  It is difficult to place all the blame on
Renfrew, for his editor should have noticed the lack of
coherence.  The result is an argument that is persuasive
but scarely convincing.

            Nevertheless, good books on archaeology assimilable
by laymen are not easy to find, and if the reader
can tolerate its shortcomings and is not overly concerned
about the precise birthplace of Indo-European,
Archaelogy & Language provides an interesting march
through the millennia of prehistory in seven-league
boots.

            Laurence Urdang
         
         
            Webster's Electronic Thesaurus
            This software consists of two disks, one labeled
Installation and Program, the other Synonym Linguibase,
and a manual.  The manual sets forth everything
with clarity, and the program is simple to install, requiring
only a few minutes.  Only one thing made me a
little suspicious when cranking up the system: in the
descriptive text that appears on the screen, the word
labeled is spelt “labelled”—decidedly un-American.
However, I went ahead, and, since I was typing the
text you are reading, returned to the beginning of the
paragraph to see how some of these words would fare.
I looked up the word preceding and was, after a brief
moment, asked to type in the word, which I did.  The
screen bloomed forth with the following:

            Query: preceding

            1)  adj being before especially in time or arrangement

            There were also some other parts of speech: one
definition for the preposition and three for the verb
(participial) senses.  I called up the synonyms for the
adj and the following appeared:

            Synonyms:


antecedent, anterior, foregoing, former, past, precedent,
previous, prior
            

            The way the program works is this: one uses the cursor
to highlight a particular word for which synonyms are
desired.  It is similar, in principle, to finding a synonym
in a synonym dictionary and then looking up its synonyms
to find them.  I am not sure why, but I expected
the program to “network” in the same way.  However,
when I highlighted antecedent , what appeared on the
screen was the same list of synonyms but with antecedent
missing, and preceding had reappeared.  If all this
is too complicated to follow, let me summarize: you
look up word X and get synonyms A, B, C, D, E, F,
and G.  You look up the synonyms for word A, and you
get synonyms X, B, C, D, E, F, and G.  Even the
definition provided for the sub-listings is identical in
wording to that of the word originally sought.

            This is very economical of space and involves a
clever computer ploy, but it does not provide a particularly
useful synonym dictionary, for, as we all know,
synonymy in language does not yield to the commutative
law of mathematics; in language, “Things equal to
the same thing are not (necessarily) equal to each
other.”  Perhaps the Proximity people thought that they
had got round that little problem by giving the same
definition for each of the items in the list; but we know
that only very rarely are two synonyms bi-unique
(which is another way of saying that if A = B, B does
not necessarily always equal A), an ineluctable fact of
language.

            If a relatively limited access to a synonym dictionary
is likely to be of use, then this package may be of
service.  It works with a hard disk or with a set of
floppies and can be used with 29 popular word-processing
programs.  (That was the number listed when I
received my copy; it might have increased.)  It also has
a few neat features, like suggesting a few alternatives if
you happen to think that preceding is spelt “preceeding”
(as many people do).  It has a useful “Help” feature
that can be called upon at any stage.  Also, if you
enter jump , you get the synonyms for that; but if you
enter jumped , you get the (same) synonyms but inflected—including
the variants leapt, leaped for leap .
All in all, for a relatively primitive system, it is not too
bad; but you would have to be in love with your computer
to use it in preference to a far more complete
books of synonyms available (especially The Synonym
Finder , Rodale in the U.S. and Canada, Longman
elsewhere, which offers more than 800,000 synonyms,
more than three times the number listed in any other
synonym book).

            The blurb on this book/disk package reads, “Supplies
you with 470,000 true synonyms for 40,000 entries.”
My guess is that such a quantity might be
reached if one counted all the permutations and combinations;
in reality, though, there are probably far
fewer actual words.  Readers can judge for themselves
the validity of this numerical legerdemain.

            Laurence Urdang
         
         
            Family Words
            In 1962, American Speech published “Family
Words in English,” by Allen Walker Read, which was
reprinted in VERBATIM Vol. I, No. 4, (1975).  The article
is a classic, probably the first on the subject to appear
in a scholarly journal, though there are other informal
references to family language, some of which are documented
by Dickson in his Bibliography.

            Family words and expressions crop up everywhere.
Some are quite unique and their reporters cannot
imagine their origin; others, like Penn Station ,
“what one family terms a child's misinterpretation of a
famous line or phrase,” are clear: the generic term
comes from the Lord's Prayer—“And lead us not into
Penn Station.”  Obviously, that works only for kids familiar
with New York City.  Other Penn Stations :


Our Father, which art in heaven, Harold be Thy
name.

Land where the Pilgrims pried.

Bells on cocktails ring.

I pledge my allowance to the flag.

Gladly the cross-eyed bear
Onward Christian Soldiers,
Marching as to War,
With the cross-eyed Jesus,
Leaning on the phone.

...One nation, invisible...

...One nation, in a vegetable...
            

            Many people know F.H.B. for `family hold back,' an
exhortation ensuring ample provender for guests.

            This is not to suggest that Dickson's book is a
catalogue of bloopers, or what Amsel Greene (and
Jack Smith) like to call pullet surprises .  There are
many interesting entries in Family Words which, as far
as I know, is the first documentation of the genre.
There are occasional hidden entries, as the list of diseases—among
them the dread mohogus —under the
entry for Fowlenzia .  (In the VERBATIM family, some
suffer from Fowler's pip , an affliction affecting language
fanatics who base a slavish purism on a literal
interpretation of Modern English Usage .)

            
               Family Words is useful and fun.  Inevitably, some
of the entries are more imaginative than others; Dickson
will have his hands full if everyone responds giving
private words.  Please sent yours to the author, c/o Addison-Wesley,
Reading, MA 01867, not to VERBATIM.

            Laurence Urdang
         
         

            A Midwesterner, Will Hays, Jr., who is proud of
his knowledge of post-Civil-War history, tells me the
following origin of shot , as in shotglass , absent from
“Gunning for the English Language”:

            Although we associate trench warfare with World
War I, trenches were characteristic also of the Civil
War.  A scaffold was built so that a rifleman—
who fired a single-shot, muzzle-loading shoulder
weapon—could step up and shoot over the top of the
trench.  The soldier in charge would command, after
each firing, that the rank on the scaffold step down
and be replaced by the rank that had just reloaded,
thus alternating ranks and sustaining the rifle fire.

            That war, like others, produced disgruntled veterans
and those more adventurous or more restless after
military service.  They moved westward to start a new
life.  The population increased markedly, with corresponding
demands for goods and services, among them
the need for saloons.  Most new saloons were small and
the bars short, accommodating with difficulty the
many bunched up, in ranks, if you will, calling for
whiskey.  Many of the thirsty crowd were veterans, as
were many of the bartenders.  Thus, “Step down (or
back) and give me a shot” was readily understood.  I've
not been able to corroborate this explanation, but I'll
never forget it.




         
         

            Mr. Joseph Hymes' “Do Mistake—Learn Better”
[XV,1] brought to mind the time a Japanese acquaintance
told me of a friend of hers who decided to tackle
the original English version of three books she had
enjoyed while in Japan.  She boldly marched into a
bookstore and asked the salesclerk for a copy each of
Hemingway's The Sun Come Up Again and Throw
Away the Gun and Steinbeck's The Angry Grape .  Is
there a term for the errors that creep in while translating
a passage back into the original tongue?




         
         

            Mr. Davidson's observations on the Scottishness of
Chambers 20th Century Dictionary [XV,1] bear out
my own formed over sixteen years of using one.  An odd
sidelight on this came a few days after reading the
article.  Definitions under pet end with “Petting Party
(coll.) a gathering for the purpose of caressing as an
organised sport.  (Origin unknown; not from Gaelic)” I
think it hardly fanciful to discern a note of Calvinist
disapproval in this curt disclaimer.




         
         

            Although I greatly enjoyed Richard Lederer's article,
I fear that one of his paragraphs is a load of brass
monkey balls.

            The monkey on board ship was a lad employed to
fetch supplies—powder and so forth—to the guns.  The
word might also have been used for a receptacle near
the guns where powder and balls were kept.  However,
this receptacle would have taken the form of a wooden
box or something similar.  The idea of a metal stand
carrying a pyramid of cannon balls so delicately balanced
as to be affected by the tiny differential expansion
of brass and iron does not bear thinking about in a
heavy sea.

            So what is the explanation of the phrase cold
enough to freeze the balls off a brass monkey ?  Well,
the obvious one, I believe.  Anybody who asks “Why a
brass monkey?” is probably not aware that brass monkeys
were very common household ornaments in England
in the 19th and early 20th centuries.  Originally,
they were probably imported from India, but were
later mass-produced in places such as Birmingham to
grace Victorian and Edwardian mantelshelves.  They
can still be found today in so-called “gift shops.”  Usually,
they come in sets of three, one with its hands over
its eyes, one over its ears, and one over its mouth: they
were said to represent “See no evil, Hear no evil, Speak
no evil.”  There were various whimsical variants.




         
         

            I am sure I am not the first to point out Joseph
Hynes's, “Do Mistake—Learn Better,” [XV,1] mistakes
in Japanizing English words, e.g., sei fu not “safe-o,”
nain not “nine-o.”  The possibilities for representing
English with a language of only forty-seven syllables
are not that numerous, and the rules are very consistent.
The main problems are representing consonant
clusters and word-final consonants.  These difficulties
produce such monstrosities as sutoraike for English
`strike'—one syllable in English, five in Japanese.

            Every Japan veteran has his list of favorite mistakes.
Mine are the ones that are possible, but wrong,
English.  Adding the Japanese final vowels produces
Gone with the Windo .  Hypercorrection, where Japanese
speakers learn that many final vowels do not exist
in the American version of the tongue and so remove
them, sometimes incorrectly, gives us the California
cities of San Francisk and Sacrament .  This process
resulted in the sign reading Pizz and Coffee .

            My absolute favorite of these semantic mistakes,
however, does not come from the problem of sound.
Japanese has a verb inflection which expresses causation
or permission—in English, “to make someone or
to let someone do something.”  One day during a university
English class, a very discomfited student, after
frantic and obtrusive dictionary work, handed a colleague
of mine a scrap of paper.  On it was written this
sentence: “Please make me go to the bathroom.”




         
         
            You Could Look It Up
            As everyone in the world must know by now, William
Safire writes a column in The New York Times
Magazine called “On Language.”  Considering the circulation
of The New York Times on Sundays, his column
is probably the most widely read commentary on
contemporary English in the world; that places more
than one uncommon burden on a writer: he must do
his utmost to be accurate; he must try to select subjects
likely to be of interest to his readers; and he must
write well.

            Those familiar with Safire's editorial style, reflected
in his political columns on the editorial pages
of The N. Y. Times , may agree with me in the contention
that when he writes about language he seems to
be writing on his day off: I cannot put my finger on
why, but “On Language” always strikes me as an excruciating
effort to be cute.  In part, that is attributable
to the designation of his correspondents, who
keep him informed on language that is not within
earshot, as the “Lexicographic Irregulars,” an amusing
reference the first time or two it was used but now
beginning to cloy.  More often than it might prove of
interest to me, personally, Safire deals with insiders'
language in Washington (where he is based) or with
trivialities uttered by some politico.

            As Andrew Norman wrote, in a letter published in
this book on page 113, “You flit freely back and forth
between prescriptivism and descriptivism.”  But are not
many of us guilty of that?  We are descriptive of the
usages we accept and prescriptive—perhaps proscriptive
would be more descriptive—of those we do not
like.  At least Safire expresses an opinion; whether the
reader agrees with him is another matter, as are the
questions of his accuracy, which arise fairly often, and
that of the suitability of his style, which, as far as I
know, has not been broached before.  It ill behooves
me, excoriated recently as enamored of the “cheap
larf,” to criticize Safire's arch puns, which permeate—“enliven”
is probably the word his editor would
use—his articles, but I find some kinds of humor unsuitable
for reading, however they might evoke a
chuckle when uttered viva voce .  A handful of examples,
from the book at hand:


Therefore, I stand uncorrected. [p. 112]

...“Get your hand off my knee.”  (That's a mnemonic,
pronounced knee-MONIC.)

Ize Right?  [title, p. 114]

Juggernaughty but Nice [title, p. 115]

...slanguist...[p. 116]

Lex Appeal [title, p. 121]

Logue-Rolling [title, p. 123]

[on -logue vs. -log:] Some people prefer their
logues sawed off...[p. 123]

But the Library of Congress wants to be non-U [in
its spelling of -logue words].  [ibid.]
            

            Writing containing such labored figures makes for
hard reading.  I am interested in what Safire has to say
about language but find myself stymied: I get the feeling
that he has deliberately created a minefield of
interruptions in thought through which I must pick
my way to the end.  Notwithstanding the valuable role
he plays in inspiring nonlinguists to think about language
and in informing them about myriad facets of
the subject, I find it hard slogging (or, as he would
probably write, “sloguing”).

            
               You Could Look It Up is the umpteenth collection
of Safire's columns and, like the previous collections,
contains a selection of letters from readers.  It is those
that are so sorely missed in his column.  True, there is
an occasional mention in his column of a point raised
by a correspondent, and the Letters section of the
Magazine prints a comment from time to time, but an
important feature of the books is their inclusion of far
more writer-reader interaction than one might suspect
from reading the column alone.  For one thing, the
letter-writers call attention to errors or misinterpretations
and are largely critical.  Safire cannot be accused
of being copy-proud (except, evidently, of awful puns,
as in “ Ms. is deliberately msterious , but at least it is
not deliberately msleading ” and other mscegenations).

            There is no gainsaying that Safire is one of the
most influential writers on contemporary English, and
it is essential that his books be in the libraries of all
who are interested in the subject, regardless of their
alignment with his opinions.  For one thing, he documents
many neologisms, an activity that endears him
to many working lexicographers.  From the sometimes
cavalier manner in which he treats his subject, one
wonders if Safire feels the burden of the responsibility
he has toward his readers.

            The publisher sent unrevised bound proofs from
which this review was prepared; unfortunately, there
was no proof of an index, but the publisher has assured
me that there will be one in the published book, a
rather essential ingredient of a work with this title.

            Laurence Urdang
         
         
            Webster's New World Guide to Current American
Usage

            Here is a commonsense style book, useful to those
who have the education and common sense to be in
doubt about questions of English usage.  It has some
problems, if you want to be sticky about things: on p.
xv we read:


...Einstein's Special Theory of Relativity does
not say that E = MC² and in leap year MC³.
            

            Indeed it does not.  But it does say E = mc² ; the version
with the capital M and C is, essentially, meaningless
to those familiar with the conventional symbolism used
in physics.

            While I acknowledge that it is not easy to know
how to sort out the many topics to be covered in a
usage book, most reasonable writers have taken a stab
at writing an entry under a heading that seems a likely
place to look, then have provided a detailed index.  Not
Bernice Randall.  True, one can find different from ,
etc., in an entry so headed, but for absolute constructions
one is referred to an entry called “Covered with
onions, relish, and ketchup, I ate a hotdog at the ball-park.”
If the user wants to find out about misplaced
adjectives and adverbs , reference is made to the entry
“Electric shaver for women with delicate floral design
on the handle.”  A search for only would be futile.

            Perhaps the subject and treatment of usage need
some lightening up, but I am hard put to agree that
they are quite as frivolous and light-headed as this
book would have us believe.  Fun is fun, but those who
might rely on such a book are quite serious about the
information they are seeking, and it is unfair to play
fast and loose with their sincerity.  A sense of humor
about a subject is born of a feeling of security about it,
but security is the one characteristic often lacking
among those who would use Current American Usage .

            There is no doubt that Randall enjoys her work.
But of what use is a long entry on spoonerisms?  And of
what use are the interminable examples, for instance,
of the misuse of like for as , which draw out the entry
to three pages?  More than four pages are devoted to
clichés (under the guise of “Lo and behold, it's man's
best friend.,” which, being an exclamation, really
ought to end in an exclamation point).  The article on
British/American English (“There's no home like Eaton
Place.”) is a good one, but, at six pages, its utility is
questionable.  In the matter of pronunciations of
BrEng names, it is an old-fashioned fantasy of Americans
that Brits go round saying POM-frit for Pontefract :
most Brits that I have heard give the name a
spelling pronunciation these days; and so with many of
the old shibboleths.  Of what relevance (to usage, notwithstanding
the fact that the topic is interesting) is an
entry on eponyms (“John Bull and John Hancock are
not just any johns.”)?  That is not, strictly speaking, a
subject pertinent to the title of the book.

            All of which is to say that the book is an interesting
work on the language and contains accurate,
though longwinded information about what it covers,
“interesting and useful facts about American English.”
Its only real faults are its title, which belies the content,
the cutesy headings, and the lack of a truly detailed
index: self-indexing does not provide coverage of
sufficient detail.  As a reference work on usage, it is far
from complete: The Simon and Schuster Publicity Department
could have used an entry on foreword/
forward (spelt “foreward” in the release accompanying
the review copy).

            A longish section, “Some Troublesome Idiomatic
Prepositions,” and a “Glossary of Grammatical and
Linguistic Terms Used in This Book,” followed by a list
of “References,” sources associated with specific entries,
round out the work.

            Laurence Urdang
         
         
            Language Notes from Abroad


            “Once more unto the breach for the warriors of
1'Académie Française in their uphill battle to preserve
the purity of their native tongue.  Examples of franglais
which they find particularly monstrous are, I
hear, to be condemned to a newly created “Musée des
horreurs.”  The first is “sponsor, sponsoriser, sponsorisation.”
The academy also calls upon all French to send
in further examples of “linguistic pollution,” observing
ruefully that this is one museum which will be open 12
months a year.  But the savants have passed barman,
blazer, bobsleigh , and boycott as fit for inclusion in
their new dictionary.”  [From The Times , 15 January
1988]

         
         
            Letter to the Editor of The Times



            Penny Perrick regrets (January 11) that “There is
no word in English to describe that particular, special
sort of pride that one feels in the achievements of one's
children.”  But the verb kvell , which exactly expresses
that emotion, is already (like other Yiddish loanwords,
such as chutzpah, meshugga and nosh ) to be found in
the Supplement to the Oxford-English Dictionary .

         
         
            If you think that the practice in some Muslim countries
of amputating the hand of a thief is harsh, beware
of participating in horse shows in England,
where there is no capital punishment but the issue
arises every few years:


A carriage and team of Cleveland Bay horses,
driven by Mr Fred Pendlebury...[were] approaching
the water obstacle during the cross-country
section of the Harrods International Grand Prix
when the leading pair became confused, turned
back and became entangled with the second pair.
Mr Pendlebury, of Smithills, near Bolton, Greater
Manchester, was eliminated.
            

            [From The Times , 16 May 1988]
         
         
            Loose Cannons & Red Herrings

            Readers should be familiar with Robert Claiborne's
earlier books, especially Our Marvelous Native
Tongue: The Life and Times of the English Language .
One might say that subtitling the present book “A
Book of Lost Metaphors” is an example of a loose
canon [sic] — unless metaphor is taken in its broadest
sense—but one is unlikely to find red herrings here: the
etymologies of a few hundred words and phrases are
given, many not readily findable in standard works of
reference.  The rationale behind referring to them as
“lost” arises from the author's observation of an unfortunate
state of affairs: because of an increasingly widespread
lack of familiarity with the basic, structural
elements of our culture—Greek and Roman mythology,
the Bible, literature, and ordinary historical
fact—people today are unable to discern the origins of
terms like aphrodisiac, Achilles [sic] heel or tendon,
meet one's Waterloo, sow dragon's teeth , and hand-writing
on the wall , to name a few.  There are many, of
course, but unaccountably, they are not the focus of
this book.

            Claiborne investigates and reports on expressions
like sow one's wild oats , about which he tells us little
or nothing: the modern Latinate designation Avena
fatua came too many centuries after the original expression
to have any relevance to it, so why bring up
the information that fatua is Latin for `foolish': it was
also Latin for `wild,' which might be more to the
point.  In any event, it is hard to discern, from the arch
style affected in an attempt to make dull facts interesting,
just what is the origin of sow one's wild oats .  In
many entries, Claiborne labors the obvious, offering
little or nothing we do not already know, could easily
imagine, or for which the author offers no explanation.
Among examples of the first are spit and polish,
on the spot, on the square, stick one's neck out , etc.
Examples of the last include spill the beans, square the
circle, stalemate , etc.  Between these is an occasional
flash of useful wisdom, much of it pretty well covered
by other books of this type (which seem to be proliferating).

            What is missing, for example, at square the circle ,
is the information that because the area of a circle is
mathematically calculated using pi , which is irrational,
there is no mathematical way of calculating the
dimensions of a square with the same area as that of a
given circle.  But that does not mean that such a square
cannot exist.  As for stalemate , which is related to
checkmate , would it not have been important to indicate
that the - mate part has nothing to do with English,
having been borrowed from checkmate which is a
loanword from Persian (and has nothing to do with
check , either).

            Often, an entry offers nothing in the way of etymology
and merely explains the meaning.  Does any
reader need an entry like this one?

            
               straddle .  When you straddle a horse, you've got
one leg on either side of the animal.  When a
politican straddles an issue, he's in much the same
position.

            Some speculative suggestions, as the derivation (or
reinforcement) from Seidlitz powders for take a powder
are sheer nonsense.  Not all entries contain misleading,
dull, or incorrect information, but those that do
not are marked by a lack of originality.

            Laurence Urdang
         
         
            Word Maps

            Dialect geography, a branch of dialectology, describes
certain features of the dialects of a language
and their distribution.  The field is about 100 years old.
Most prominent among its earliest practitioners in
England was Joseph Wright, who prepared the six-volume
English Dialect Dictionary , which was published
between 1898 and 1905; the best-known contemporary
British specialist is Harold Orton.  In America,
work proceeded space during the 1930s, largely under
the direction of Raven McDavid, Hans Kurath, and,
later, Harold Allen; more recently, Lee Pedersen and
others have investigated American English dialects.
Between 1948 and 1961, fieldworkers based at the University
of Leeds conducted the Survey of English Dialects,
which studied 313 localities in England (which,
as everyone ought to know, does not include Wales or
Scotland).  The present book is extracted from the two
major works that resulted from the Survey, The Linguistic
Atlas of England (1978) and A Word Geography
of England (1974), both under the direction of Harold
Orton, aided by Sanderson and Widdowson in the latter
effort.

            People generally seem to find dialect study interesting.
One letter writer to The Times [21 June 1988]
reported:


Our close neighbour... in Bere Regis, who was
born in the village and who speaks with a delicious
Dorset burr, always uses “I” instead of “me.”...

“Well, it makes company for I and company for
she.”  Another of his happy expressions is inner-wards,
meaning `since,' as in...“I chucked him
out the door and he's not been back innerwards.”
            

            Another reported [same date]:


Let's get it right.  The Bristol for “me” is not “I,”
but “oi.”  When I was teaching there, the explanation
invariably given by boys brought to me for
scrapping in the playground was: “Ee it oi, so oi
it ee.”
            

            The 100 maps selected for representation from the
Survey yield information on several hundred words,
some of which are clear variants, others quite different
lexical entities.  For instance, Map 34 shows the areas,
marked off by boundary lines, where the variants
chimley chimbley, chimmock, chimdey, chimbey , and
chimney occur.  Map 33 shows the distribution of child
(most of southern England) and of bairn (north of a
slightly wavy line between Boston, on the Wash to the
east, and Lancaster, on the west coast).

            The authors have provided a brief introduction
which is easy to follow, a list of suggested readings,
and the names and addresses of the several institutions
and societies in Britain where readers may indulge a
more intensive interest in dialect study.  The maps are
clear, each occupying a full page, and the word information
is well set forth on them.  Where necessary,
brief but not cryptic explanations are provided of any
information that might seem to be out of the ordinary.
I have only one nit to pick with the authors.  In their
description of isoglosses , they write:


These are drawn to run midway between/
localities which were shown by the Survey of
English Dialects to use the different words or
pronunciations which are the subject of the map.
            

            Although it is true that isoglosses, in effect, set off the
various areas where a particular usage was recorded,
more accurately an isogloss is drawn to connect sites
either where speakers employ both usages or where
speakers using one or the other live in very close proximity.
Hence, the term isogloss , from iso - `same' + gloss
`word,' to describe the line on a map where the terms
are of equal distribution.  Isoglosses are to dialect maps
what isobars and isotherms are to weather maps, what
isobaths are to geophysical maps of the oceans, etc.
The authors are not alone in getting this wrong: it is
incorrect in some dictionaries.

            In those countries where dialect study is undertaken,
dialectologists observe that there are today
many factors militating against the strict maintenance
of older dialect boundaries: the standardization of terminology
as adopted by national periodicals, news
services, radio, and television; the establishment of
“prestige” dialects and, through the media, their
promulgation; and the huge population shifts that
have taken place, particularly in the U.S. since WWII.
Such shifts have been somewhat slower in England,
but seem now to be speeding up.  There are many
other, lesser factors at work, but taken together, all
tend toward standardization, especially as the older
speakers die off.  In some respects, it may not be long
before certain aspects of dialect geography will be
largely historical.  The importance of dialect is emphasized
regularly in the press, where we read about people
being killed, as in parts of India, because they use
the wrong shibboleths.

            This book is a good introduction to the subject (in
England); those familiar with dialectology in
America, and those interested in the study in England
or, indeed, generally would be well advised to add
Word Maps to their libraries.

            Laurence Urdang
         
         
            American Literary Almanac

            This is an interesting, useful reference book containing
information about the better-known writers of
America.  It is divided into eighteen chapters varying
in length, each dealing with a different aspect of the
authors and their works, among them,


Writers Related to Writers
Schooldays (which colleges and universities
spawned which writers)
American Literary Pseudonyms
American Literary Title Sources
Literary Cons: Hoaxes, Frauds, and Plagiarism
in American Literature
The Profession of Authorship:

Authors/Publishers/ Editors/Agents
Thrown to the Wolves: Reviews and Reviewers
            

            These are supplemented by an extensive Bibliography
and a detailed Index.

            As can be seen from the chapter headings, some of
the material is trivial, but nonetheless interesting for
that.  It is not at once apparent why the book is styled
an “almanac,” but that is unimportant: there is no
other book I know of that contains as much diverse
information about American writers as this one.  Its
readability and organization make it suitable for
browsing—even for reading straight through—so in
that respect, at least, it does not resemble books in the
“Oxford Companion” series.  It contains many photographs
of writers, some quite early; these enliven the
appearance of the book but accomplish little else, unless
one is interested in what Samuel Clemens looked
like at the age of 15 (as a printer's devil) or in the
appearance of Hart Crane standing in the middle of a
railroad track in Cleveland in 1916.

            It is difficult to make any sensible connection between
the lives of authors and their creations.  A handful
might have led colorful existences, some are objects
of interest because they died early, committed suicide,
were related to (other) famous people, and so forth;
but such information seldom reveals as much about
their output as do the creations themselves, and in
certain cases one is probably better off not knowing
quite so much.

            This book appears to have been diligently researched
and has much to recommend it as an adjunct
to most libraries, public and private, large and small,
general and specialized.

            Laurence Urdang
         
         
            
“Faculty protest against apartheid at Cornell.”  [TV
news tease, WHEC, Rochester, .  Submitted
by .]
         
         
            
“[the tenor] brings the opera to its climax in his final
suicide.”  [From a review of Handel's Tamerlano in the  issue of Stereo Review.  Submitted by 
.]
         
         

            I would like to make a couple of comments on
articles in the Autumn 1988 issue [XV,2].  Re the article
on Cuthbert, Dickens uses intercourse to mean `communication
between people' in A Christmas Carol
when Scrooge says “I will not be the man I must have
been but for this intercourse” to the third Spirit.

            I would think that the words grand and stretch
would be known to more people than two of the words
the author gives as being familiar ( chippy and hootch ).

            Incidentally, I seem to recall reading somewhere
that skins as slang for `dollars' dates from frontier days
when trappers used animal skins as currency, and is
therefore much older than early 20th-century Harlem.



         
         
            
“...the party consisted of Beckett, Dame Peggy Ashcroft,
Harold Pinter, and the late Alan Webb.”  [from The Times
Diary , , ]
         
      
   

	
		
			Electronic theft by foreign and industrial spies and disgruntled
				employees is costing U.S. companies billions and eroding their
				international competitive advantage. That was the message delivered by
				government and private security experts at an all-day conference on
				corporate electronic espionage. "Hostile and even friendly nations
				routinely steal information from U.S. companies and share it with their
				own companies," said Noel D. Matchett, a former staffer at the federal
				National Security Agency and now president of Information Security Inc.,
				Silver Spring, Md. It "may well be" that theft of business data is "as
				serious a strategic threat to national security" as it is a threat to
				the survival of victimized U.S. firms, said Michelle Van Cleave, the
				White House's assistant director for National Security Affairs.
			The conference was jointly sponsored by the New York Institute of
				Technology School of Management and the Armed Forces Communications and
				Electronics Association, a joint industry-government trade group. Any
				secret can be pirated, the experts said, if it is transmitted over the
				air. Even rank amateurs can do it if they spend a few thousand dollars
				for a commercially available microwave receiver with amplifier and a VCR
				recorder. They need only position themselves near a company's satellite
				dish and wait. "You can have a dozen competitors stealing your secrets
				at the same time," Mr. Matchett said, adding : "It's a pretty good bet
				they won't get caught." The only way to catch an electronic thief, he
				said, is to set him up with erroneous information.
			Even though electronic espionage may cost U.S. firms billions of
				dollars a year, most aren't yet taking precautions, the experts said. By
				contrast, European firms will spend $150 million this year on electronic
				security, and are expected to spend $1 billion by 1992. Already many
				foreign firms, especially banks, have their own cryptographers,
				conference speakers reported. Still, encrypting corporate communications
				is only a partial remedy.
			One expert, whose job is so politically sensitive that he spoke on
				condition that he wouldn't be named or quoted, said the expected influx
				of East European refugees over the next few years will greatly increase
				the chances of computer-maintenance workers, for example, doubling as
				foreign spies. Moreover, he said, technology now exists for stealing
				corporate secrets after they've been "erased" from a computer's memory.
				He said that Oliver North of Iran-Contra notoriety thought he had erased
				his computer but that the information was later retrieved for
				congressional committees to read. No personal computer, not even the one
				on a chief executive's desk, is safe, this speaker noted.
			W. Mark Goode, president of Micronyx Inc., a Richardson, Texas, firm
				that makes computer-security products, provided a new definition for
				Mikhail Gorbachev's campaign for greater openness, known commonly as
				glasnost. Under Mr. Gorbachev, Mr. Goode said, the Soviets are openly
				stealing Western corporate communications. He cited the case of a Swiss
				oil trader who recently put out bids via telex for an oil tanker to pick
				up a cargo of crude in the Middle East. Among the responses the Swiss
				trader got was one from the Soviet national shipping company, which
				hadn't been invited to submit a bid. The Soviets' eavesdropping paid
				off, however, because they got the contract.
		
	
We don't know who is winning the drug war in Latin America, but we know who's losing it -- the press.
Over the past six months, six journalists have been killed and 10 kidnapped by drug traffickers or leftist guerrillas -- who often are one and the same -- in Colombia.
Over the past 12 years, at least 40 journalists have died there.
The attacks have intensified since the Colombian government began cracking down on the traffickers in August, trying to prevent their takeover of the country.

The slaughter in Colombia was very much on the minds of 450 editors and publishers from Latin America, the United States, the Caribbean and Canada attending the 45th general assembly of the Inter-American Press Association in Monterrey, Mexico, this week.
On Tuesday the conference got word of another atrocity, the assassination in Medellin of two employees of El Espectador, Colombia's second-largest newspaper.
The paper's local administrator, Maria Luz Lopez, was shot dead, and her mother wounded, while her car was stopped for a red light.
An hour later, the paper's circulation manager, Miguel Soler, was shot and killed near his home.

The drug lords who claimed responsibility said they would blow up the Bogota newspaper's offices if it continued to distribute in Medellin.
They bombed the Bogota offices last month, destroying its computer and causing $2.5 million in damage.

El Espectador has been a special target because of the extraordinary courage of its publisher and his staff.
At Monterrey, publisher Luis Gabriel Cano, although shaken by the murders, issued a statement saying: "We will not cease our fight against drug trafficking.
They want to terrify the press and in particular El Espectador because it has always been a torchbearer in this war."
This comes from a man whose brother, Guillermo, was murdered in 1986.

The publishers in Monterrey command no battalions, but they agreed to express their outrage with editorials in today's editions.
Many will use a common editorial.
A final statement yesterday said: "While some advances are being made in nations throughout the hemisphere, the state of press freedom in the Americas still must be regarded as grim as long as journalists and their families are subject to the crudest form of censorship: death by assassination."

The report charged that Panama's Manuel Noriega is not only in league with the drug traffickers but also is bullying the press as never before.
"Noriega has closed every independent newspaper, radio and television station and arrested, tortured or forced into exile a long list of reporters," the statement declared.

It added: "In Cuba, public enemy No. 1 of press freedoms in the hemisphere, repression of journalists both Cuban and foreign is worse than ever."
And in Nicaragua, promises of press freedom by the Sandinistas "have not materialized."

As it happens, the four countries cited, Colombia, Cuba, Panama and Nicaragua, are not only where the press is under greatest attack but also are linked by the drug trade and left-wing politics.
Noriega is close to Castro and may once have been his agent.
Sandinistas Thomas Borge and the Ortega brothers are Castro proteges; he backed their takeover of Nicaragua.
In Colombia, the drug-financed guerrillas trying to seize the country and destroy democracy include M-19, which Castro has clearly backed.

Robert Merkel, a former U.S. attorney handling drug indictments in Florida, doesn't think for a minute that Castro's much publicized trials of high officials engaged in the drug trade mean he has broken off with the Medellin drug cartel.
"If the cartel succeeds in blackmailing the Colombian authorities into negotiations, the cartel will be in control and Fidel can exploit his past relationships with them," he told the Journal's David Asman recently.

The struggle against the drug lords in Colombia will be a near thing.
This week, the government arrested Jose Abello Silva, said to be the fourth-ranking cartel leader.
He will probably be extradited to the U.S. for trial under an extradition treaty President Virgilia Barco has revived.
Later, another high-ranking trafficker, Leonidas Vargas, was arrested and 1,000 pounds of dynamite seized.
Mr. Barco has refused U.S. troops or advisers but has accepted U.S. military aid.

President Bush has agreed to meet within 90 days with Mr. Barco, President Alan Garcia of Peru and President Jaime Paz Zamora of Bolivia to discuss the drug problem.
It might not be a bad idea to do that sooner, rather than later.
After the Panama fiasco, they will need some reassurance.
Certainly, the Colombian press is much in need of that.
